The job market today is awash with individuals in search of a source of livelihood. Unfortunately, while almost every job-seeker has a calculated plan on their expected salary and how they intend to utilise it, very few of these individuals inherently understand or contemplate what they intend to offer the employer in exchange for their perceived compensation. This is evidenced by the numerous complaints from employers whose major concern is lack of dependable hires. Sadly, the enthusiastic and energised job-seeker who rigorously works hard to impress recruiters often coil after the job offer leaving human resource managers doubting their hiring skills. This is because, most hires will be found shifting their focus to clocking in and clocking out as they count the hours and days to pay day. Dependability is generally defined as the quality of being able to be counted on or relied upon. This has to do with worthiness of trust. At the workplace, dependable workers are those that work with minimal supervision, are attentive to detail and work with the organisation&rsquo;s bottom-line in mind. Dependable employees are engaged and have a sense of ownership of the organisation that they work for. They focus their energies on self-improvement and engage in healthy discussions on how to grow their careers as well as improve their productivity as opposed to focusing on depleting company resources without adding value. What are some of the signs that you are dependable? First, is the amount of work in your in-tray. Do you frequently find your tray full such that you have to learn time management skills and organisational skills to complete tasks efficiently and effectively? Or has your boss created an idler in you? How often does your boss delegate his duties to you? Are you responsive to the organisational challenges? Practice makes perfect Do you contribute to the ideas forum or do you just carry out your tasks grudgingly with a chip on your shoulder? Second sign is diligence. How meticulous are you at the workplace? Are you a critical thinker or do you apply work formulas like a robot regardless of the outcome? Most career builders&rsquo; one million dollar question is, &lsquo;Does it pay to be dependable?&rsquo;. The answer is in the affirmative. Any career success minded individual should focus on both being dependable and reliable. They should be duty bound to ensure both organisational and personal success. Remember the adage &lsquo;practice makes perfect&rsquo; hold true, meaning that the probability of replicating your attitudes at work in your social life is a reality. Due care must therefore be exercised to increase the degree of dependability at work to guarantee prospects of career progression. It is worth noting that the parameters that define a successful career gravitate towards dependability. Whether it is a promotion, salary increments, better fringe benefits, recognition etc, dependability is an indispensable factor. As you continue setting and evaluating your careers goals for this year, it is advisable to pay attention to methods of improving your degree of dependence. Remember perfection is alien to success, being a person of excellence who continuously seeks to improve is the secret formula for champions. Luckily, plenty of help and resources are available for those who genuinely desire career success. &mdash;The writer is a Human Resource Specialist and the co-author of &lsquo;The Career Code&rsquo;. Email: [email&#160;protected]