&nbsp;Hundreds of Rwandan leaders gathered in Kigali Sunday to thank God for last year&#39;s achievements as well as dedicate the year 2017 to Him. The annual prayer is organized by the Rwanda Leaders Fellowship. It brings together top leaders to pray for the nation and its leaders. Decades after its initiation, the national prayer breakfast was first held in September 1, 1995. Those who congregate include church leaders, public servants, the civil society and members of the private sector.Dr. Antoine Rutayisire, chairperson of the Rwanda Leaders Fellowship, explained that the forum is derived from the conviction that leadership and specifically good leadership come from God, who molds the character of leadership. Outlined among the important milestones last year, include some infrastructure projects that were either inaugurated or works launched as well as several international meetings and events that were successfully hosted in Rwanda.Speaking at the event, Rwandan President Paul Kagame observed that 2016 was good year as far as Rwanda&#39;s development targets are concerned though much more needed to be done. I wish to thank everyone and to thank God for accomplishments in 2016 as we look forward to doing more in 2017, Kagame said.&quot;Many great things were accomplished last year. I say this with hope that as we start 2017, we will be able to move forward with the same values that enabled us to accomplish those many things we managed to undertake in 2016.&quot; He challenged Rwandans to believe in their capabilities, while ensuring team work for a common goal.He also urged youth to explore their potential for the country to register bigger achievements in future. &quot;We must work with those around us (development partners) with whom we share values and challenges and do as much as we can to invest in transforming the lives of Rwandans. For us to be hopeful of better things after life, we must first fulfill our responsibilities in this life,&quot; said Kagame.He stressed that leaders must care enough about the welfare of the people they serve in the quest for national development. Kagame underlined the notion of equality regardless of sex or race, saying God created people equal.&quot;We are all created equal in capacity. Africans, Rwanda, we must change the way we think, we must check our mindset, our values. The earlier we start doing something about this, the better.&quot;&quot;If we wait for others to do our part, what will our own capacities do? Staying in a position of being eternally grateful to others without graduating to doing things yourself has no excuse.&quot;