A Nairobi businessman was at the weekend arrested after a gun drama with his wife at a popular club along Kiambu Road.Paul Kinuthia, proprietor of Nice and Lovely beauty products, was arrested at Shark Palace off Kiambu Road after he&nbsp; allegedly shot in the air following an argument with his wife on Saturday night. No one was injured.Police said Kinuthia shot in the air to scare bouncers at the club as he pursued his wife who had run inside seeking refuge.&quot;He shot at least three times in the air as he looked for the woman who had run into the club. No injury was reported,&quot; said a witness. ALSO READ: Police want suspect in brokerage firm case locked up, say he has jumped bailKinuthia spent the night at the Muthaiga police cells after being disarmed. He is expected in court this morning to face various charges, police said.Witnesses said the shooting drama started inside the couple&#39;s car that was parked outside the club.Kinuthia&#39;s wife jumped out of the car and ran into the club with her husband in hot pursuit. When bouncers&nbsp; at the club&#39;s entrance tried to stop him, the businessman brandished his gun and shot in the air.Nairobi police boss Japheth Koome said Kinuthia and his wife were headed for a private event in the area when an argument ensued inside their car.&quot;This led to a shooting incident at the joint but no one was injured. The suspect was disarmed and placed in custody. He will face the law,&quot; said Koome.A number of revelers who were at the club scampered for safety. They later turned up at the police station and recorded statements.Elsewhere, patron at a club in the city recovered a pistol loaded with 15 bullets and a pair of handcuffs in the toilet. ALSO READ: Police want suspect in brokerage firm case locked up, say he has jumped bailAccording to the manager, a customer at the Olive Restaurant along Tom Mboya Street stumbled on the weapon and alerted the management who called the police.Police took away the weapon for verification to establish the owner.The two incidents come amidst growing concerns over misuse of licensed firearms in the country.Available statistics indicate that there are more than 10,000 civilian gun holders in the country.An earlier plan to recall all firearms owned by civilians for inspection after revelations that a criminal cartel at the Central Firearms Bureau was supplying parallel licenses by manipulating the security system and bypassing rules failed to materialise.Officials at the bureau say the cartels are so powerful they have resisted&nbsp; planned changes to effect a better gun licensing system.Police plan to push for more changes in the Firearms Act to address various incidents of gun abuse. They accuse gun dealers of refusing to cooperate in gun licensing. ALSO READ: BIG TEST FOR KENYA: As Ghana stands on the way in FIH World League According to Deputy Inspector General of police Joel Kitili, complaints against misuse of guns by licensed owners have been on the rise.&quot;There were changes made to the Act but they are not enough because the problems they aimed at addressing are yet to be resolved. We are proposing more changes to ensure such problems are addressed,&quot; he said.He urged anybody seeking to own a licensed gun to begin the process from the officer in charge of the nearest police station.