&nbsp;A man who was presumed dead has returned home in Masaba, Kisii County. Vincent Oyugi, 29, showed up on Tuesday evening, a month after his family buried a body they presumed was his. Mr Oyugi was presumed dead after an accident at Ewaso Nyiro, Narok County a few months ago.The first-born in a family of six said he had all the while been at his residence in Narok and was not aware that his family members were looking for him.The family had been informed by a relative that Oyugi was among the people who died in the crash.His mother, Eunice Oyugi, said after they received the information they travelled to Narok Hospital Mortuary where they picked the alleged body and on December 4, 2016 buried it.&ldquo;No DNA tests were done but both the postmortem and identification of the body was done at the Narok County hospital,&rdquo; said Eunice.When the body arrived home not even Oyugi&rsquo;s agemates could tell that it wasn&rsquo;t his body as the body was in very bad shape.&ldquo;I am in pain because I cannot understand how we buried a wrong body. I am yet to believe that my son is alive. The birthmarks indicate he is indeed my son,&rdquo; said the mother.Oyugi told The Standard he was in the vehicle that was involved in the accident but had jumped out shortly before it rolled.&ldquo;I sustained minor injuries but walked away and sought medical attention at some private hospital. I later moved to another farm where I have been working,&rdquo; he said.He added: &ldquo;My family and relatives have been running away from me since I arrived home on Tuesday. They think I am a ghost. I have apologised and hope elders will carry out the traditional procedures to appease the evil spirits.&rdquo;Samson Makori, an elder with the Gusii Council of Elders, said Oyugi will not be allowed into the home until certain rites have been performed. No family member is also allowed to get into contact with him.&ldquo;We will pour the bowels of a slaughtered white goat into the grave to cleanse the family of evil spirits once we exhume the buried body. The family will also be forced to feed on the white cock,&rdquo; explained Makori.