A team of 12 is working on structures and selection of a joint Opposition presidential candidate expected to be unveiled next month.Sources said the team was drawing up structures for National Super Alliance (NASA) and a mode of picking the presidential candidate.&ldquo;The deliberations are almost complete. By next month, they will have agreed on a candidate to unveil to Kenyans next month. We know our supporters are anxious but we want to give them the best candidate,&rdquo; said a source privy to the discussions. CORD co-principals Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula as well as Musalia Mudavadi of Amani National Congress have all expressed interest to fly the Opposition&rsquo;s presidential flag.CORD member parties; Orange Democratic Movement (ODM), Wiper Democratic Movement and Ford Kenya, as well as ANC and 15 other small parties have formed a technical committee to work on the two issues.A source close to the discussions revealed that ODM, Wiper, Ford Kenya and ANC had provided two technocrats each to the technical committee. ALSO READ: Raila's ID in yet another double voter registrationThe other 15 smaller parties, including Chama Cha Mashinani, Charity Ngilu&rsquo;s Narc, Wavinya Ndeti&rsquo;s Chama Cha Umma and Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana&rsquo;s Muungano Party had been given four slots.&ldquo;This is a team of 12 highly respected technocrats in various fields, a majority of them not politicians. They are tasked with working on structures of NASA as a coalition and modalities of a politically cost-effective method of nominating the Nasa presidential candidate,&rdquo; the source said.He added: &ldquo;The structures for NASA should be ready by next month.&rdquo; Parties are expected to file their pre-election agreements with the Registrar of Political Parties in May.Sources privy to the intense consultations, confirmed to The Standard that the Opposition was making progress and soon Kenyans would know Nasa&rsquo;s flag-bearer.The technocrats will also advise the Opposition on the newly enacted electoral laws and monitor how the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission would implement the electoral laws and the set deadlines for the August 8 polls.The source said lawyers in the team have already identified grey areas in the new law.&ldquo;The new electoral laws want IEBC to micro-manage political parties. The new laws require that parties give a list of its nominees by February to IEBC. This contradicts the law that says parties have to carry out their nominations in May,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Is there a plan to get rid of Joho?He added: &ldquo;The team is monitoring IEBC, which has lagged behind in its work. It has not set up a joint oversight and monitoring committee to oversee its procurement. There is also no integrated ICT system. That is why we want to closely watch IEBC.&rdquo;Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale confirmed that negotiations were going on.&ldquo;The decision reached will be made public at the right time. Talks are ongoing. This is an active process. The public should give us time to conclude our consultations and announce the candidate,&rdquo;said Dr Khalwale, who is also the Ford Kenya Deputy Party Leader said.Wiper Vice Chairman and Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr stressed that only a united Opposition would dislodge Jubilee from power.&ldquo;We need a strong Opposition candidate but the methodology used should provide for fair exercise. We do not want a replica of what happened in 2002 and 2007 where many political parties merged only to be short-changed in the process,&rdquo; warned Kilonzo Jnr.He continued: &ldquo;We must come up with proper coalition documents that will be shared among Kenyans, agreeable by all the presidential candidates. This should be done as soon as possible without further delay.&rdquo;The legislator said this was a time for sacrifice, since not everyone can run for the presidency and win. ALSO READ: Raila's ID in yet another double voter registration&ldquo;The choice of the candidate will also be a litmus test for the Opposition leadership. Kenyans&rsquo; expectations are very high and therefore we cannot afford to let them down.&rdquo;Another opposition leader, who is among the team leading the process, said they were making progress.&ldquo;We are on course. The talks are progressing so well. Everything is going on smoothly. There will be white smoke soon,&rdquo; he said.He continued: &ldquo;All the leaders are responding positively and it is a good pointer.&rdquo;Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama said NASA&rsquo;s dream was close to fruition and their flagbearer would be known soon.&ldquo;There is no misunderstanding. What is happening in our coalition now is democracy where people disagree to agree. It is not wrong for the leaders to express their opinions,&rdquo; he said.