KAPENGURIA: Two children were killed on Friday night when suspected bandits attacked a village along the West Pokot-Turkana border.Pokot Central Sub-County Deputy Commissioner Geoffrey Kithinji said the raiders were on a revenge mission. They abducted the children, aged 12 and 13 years, and also drove away 200 goats.&ldquo;The criminals decided to kill the innocent children after making sure the goats had crossed into Turkana and abandoned the bodies in the bushes,&rdquo; Mr Kithinji said.He said security personnel had been deployed to contain the tension that has been building in the area since the attack and also to search for the attackers suspected to have come from a neighbouring community. ALSO READ: Vegetable shortage hits North Rift marketsThe attackers were said to be revenging the deaths of two people killed in Turkana South on Thursday.&ldquo;Our team is already looking for them and we will ensure that they face the full force of the law,&rdquo; said Kithinji.&ldquo;We are calling for calm and urging locals not to use the incident to condemn an entire community. These are just a few thugs. Cattle rustling is a crime and we must pursue and arrest the perpetrators.&rdquo;Masol MCA Ariong&rsquo;o Lopurna called on the national government to beef up security in the area.TWO YEARS&ldquo;Banditry has resurfaced in this area after two years of peace. We don&rsquo;t know what is happening. We have lived in peace with our neighbours for two years,&rdquo; he said.The bodies of the children were taken to the Kapenguria County Hospital mortuary. ALSO READ: Turkana leaders vow to fight for 10 percent oil share benefitsMeanwhile, Pokot South MP David Pkosing has cautioned against politicising the insecurity that has affected the county&rsquo;s boundaries with Turkana, Elgeyo Marakwet and Baringo counties.&ldquo;Insecurity along the border of West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet counties has affected hundreds of families and there is need for the leaders to join hands and preach peace,&rdquo; said Mr Pkosing at Chepkobe Mixed Secondary School.&ldquo;Leaders should desist from making inciting remarks and playing politics that could affect ongoing efforts to achieve lasting peace. Let us maintain peace during our campaigns. I also call on residents to shun leaders fanning violence.&rdquo;WORK TOGETHERWest Pokot County senatorial aspirant Julius Murgor said local leaders must work together, irrespective of political or religious affiliations, to achieve peace.&ldquo;Peace is a prerequisite for any sustainable development. However, because of insecurity, even our education has been affected because students and teachers have been kept out of school due to frequent raids,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: One killed as raiders invade Turkana village, livestock stolen