The Opposition has warned against any threat on Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho&#39;s life and rigging of the August 8 elections.Orange Democratic Movement leader Raila Odinga led other party leaders from Coast in accusing the State of plotting to assassinate Mr Joho and rig the August polls using National Intelligence Service, police and the military.The leaders also claimed the Jubilee administration had lost legitimacy to govern for failing to resolve the doctors&#39; and lecturers&#39; strikes and asked Coast residents to reject the ruling coalition, which they accused of reneging on comprehensive land reforms in the region. Joho, who has been at loggerheads with the Jubilee government for over two years, declared he was not afraid of being killed or contributing to the cause of liberty.Mr Raila, Joho and Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi were addressing supporters in Mtwapa, Kilifi at a meeting convened to rally locals to register as voters. Raila will hold rallies in Mombasa and Kilifi today.&quot;We warn the civil servants and NIS against aiding Jubilee to rig the elections. I&#39;m also aware that they want to hurt or kill Joho. Let them try,&quot; said Raila who arrived at the Coast yesterday. ALSO READ: Opinion: Why a Raila presidency is welcomeEarlier yesterday, ODM released a statement claiming NIS agents were secretly registering Ethiopians and Ugandans as Kenyan citizens and issuing them with voting cards to participate in the August polls.Last evening the ODM leaders repeated the claims and declared that the Opposition would not accept a stolen election.But speaking in Kirinyaga yesterday, President Uhuru Kenyatta dismissed the claims as outrageous. Uhuru said the Opposition had sensed defeat and had resorted to making unsubstantiated claims.&quot;You should register en masse so that we defeat the Opposition. They have sensed defeat and are now making outrageous claims,&quot; he said at Kutus town.The Interior ministry through spokesman Mwenda Njoka denounced the ODM leaders, accusing them of propagating malicious lies to discredit &quot;respectable institutions&quot;. Mr Njoka said the claims were designed to undermine voter registration and discredit the State and challenged Raila to provide proof.&quot;If there is anything like that, the respectable thing the former Prime Minister ought to do is to record a statement with the relevant authorities so that action can be taken,&quot; said Njoka.He continued: &quot;These unsubstantiated claims are malicious and intended to undermine the voter registration exercise, while at the same time maligning respectable institutions.&quot; ALSO READ: Opinion: Why a Raila presidency is welcomeJoho sparked the debate when he claimed the Opposition had compiled a list of NIS, military, police officers and civil servants allegedly campaigning for President Kenyatta. The governor said security agencies engaging in such illegal acts should be punished.&quot;We have the names of military, police and NIS officers who are working with Jubilee to bar Raila from ascending to leadership. We will deal with them,&quot; he said amid cheers.The governor further alleged he was being stalked by State agents since his altercation with Uhuru in Mombasa early this month.&quot;I&#39;ll die and be buried the same day. Jubilee should know that we are not afraid of death because we know there are over a million people just like us,&quot; Joho said.Raila said CORD would unveil the &quot;adopt a polling station&quot; strategy and well-wishers would be required to finance the cost of manning the votes during voter registration and elections.Like in the recent polls in Ghana, Raila said CORD would hire up to 59 youths who will man all the 44,000 voting centres across the country.&quot;In Ghana, President Nana Akufo-Addo lost in 2008 and 2012 and this year he won after he implemented adopt-a poll-station strategy. We are also requesting well-wishers to come forward and assist CORD in doing the same,&quot; said Raila. ALSO READ: Chebukati team gets down to work amid concernsHe said potential financiers will contribute $1000 (Sh104,050) each to cater for food and allowances.