NAKURU, KENYA: The low supply of sugar in Nakuru supermarkets has continued to push the prices up forcing the retail outlets to repackage their own to meet the current demand. A check at several Supermarkets in Nakuru reveals that the supply of various brands in the markets has been low while others are completely out of stock. At Gilanis Supermarket, only Mara Sugar and the supermarket&#39;s re-packaged sugar were available in the shelves going at between Sh125 and Sh130 per kilogramme. &quot;We cannot tell when we will have another brand&#39;s supply because Mara seems to be the only brand in constant supply currently,&quot; an attendant revealed. However at Tuskys Supermarket, Nutrameal Sugar, a repackaged brand was the only stock in the shelves. The Stock is packaged in two kilogramme bags selling at Sh 280 which to many customers who talked to the standard was still very high. &quot;The current price of sugar is high and packaging it in two Kilograms is making it worse. With my current financial constraints, I can only purchase a kilo of sugar,&quot; Stephen Njuguna, a customer said. According to John Wakachala, an attendant at Tuskys Supermarket, the supply of sugar has been low with many sugar companies like Kabras reducing their supply. He said since the beginning of this year, Kabras sugar has not been in the market. &quot;The supply as well as demand has been very low as compared to last month. The supply from companies like Kabras and Mumias has been very low especially in Nakuru region. Most of the brands we are currently selling are repackaged,&quot; said Wakachala. At Woolmatt and Ukwala Supermarkets, Nzoia brand of sugar was being sold in two kilogramme bags at Sh270. There is also an acute shortage of green vegetables in the supermarkets following the on-going dry spell. &quot;Apart from the main Wakulima market, Supermarkets have remained the only source of green vegetables currently but the demand is very high. As soon as the vegetables are delivered there is always a scramble for it,&quot; said Wakachala.