Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka Monday reiterated he is the best bet to send the Jubilee administration packing in the August polls. Kalonzo urged his CORD co-principals Raila Odinga and Moses Wetang&#39;ula to go slow on their presidential quests and back him to ensure the Opposition wins the elections. Speaking at Kalundu market in Kitui Township, Kwa-vonza and Kabati markets in Kitui Rural and Kitui West constituencies, the former vice president said it was high time Raila and Wetang&#39;ula came back to reality, read the mood on the ground and accepted him to be the CORD flag-bearer. &quot;I am the most appropriate presidential candidate for CORD in this year&#39;s elections. It is my time take the baton. My conviction tells me I am likely the next president of this country,&quot; said Kalonzo. He urged the Kamba community to register as voters&nbsp;in large numbers in order to remove Jubilee from power. Those accompanying him included Governor Julius Malombe, Senator David Musila and other Wiper leaders. ALSO READ: Raila dangles trophy to lure locals in IEBC registration drive Today, Kalonzo will tour Kisasi, Ikanga, Mutomo, and Ikutha before moving to Kibwezi in Makueni County in the afternoon. His plea comes 11 days after the three CORD leaders were joined by Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi at Bomas of Kenya during an event organised to pledge commitment to a broad-based opposition coalition marketed as the National Super-Alliance (Nasa). &quot;It is high time my brothers Raila and Wetang&#39;ula gave way for me to proceed as the man to wrestle Jubilee from power,&quot; Kalonzo told a crowd at the Machakos bus park during a stopover to rally new voters in the lower Eastern region. &quot;Raila and Wetang&#39;ula should know I am the lion that (senator) Muthama talks about, and I will no longer use diplomatic language to agitate for my position, for there is no diplomacy here in Kenya,&quot; he added, referring to Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama. Late last year, Kalonzo had claimed his close ally Muthama was working with Siaya Senator James Orengo in an alleged scheme to block him from being picked as CORD&#39;s presidential aspirant. Muthama (Wiper), Orengo (ODM) and Ford Kenya&#39;s Eseli Simiyu are members of the CORD management committee. Recently, Muthama also stoked controversy when he insisted smaller parties like Muungano of Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana must fold and join Wiper. Kalonzo and Wetang&#39;ula have consistently asked Raila to step down and back either of them, citing the former premier&#39;s past three unsuccessful presidential runs. ALSO READ: Issue new IDs fairly across Kenya, Raila warns over Uhuru order He also argues that in 2013 he shelved his ambition, backed Raila and it was time the Orange leader reciprocated. However, Raila&#39;s allies have insisted he is the best bet for the opposition alliance to beat Uhuru and his deputy William Ruto in the August polls. Yesterday, Kalonzo accused President Uhuru and his deputy of leading a government ridden with corruption and tribalism. &quot;The Government which we shall form under my leadership will be all inclusive for all Kenyans, free from corruption and tribalism and not a government comprising two or three tribes,&quot; he said. Others present were Muthama, Machakos Deputy Governor Bernard Kiala and MPs Susan Musyoka (Machakos), Patrick Makau (Mavoko), Kyengo Maweu (Kangundo) and Makali Mulu (Kitui Central), among others.