After more than 35 years at the pulpit, ACK Mumias Diocese Bishop Beneah Salala has joined politics. Last Sunday, Salala gave his last sermon after serving for 15 years as the first bishop of the diocese.The outspoken cleric, who has had run-ins with the police for his sharp criticism of the government, is ready to take politics head-on. &ldquo;I am now going to do it to the fullest,&rdquo; he said after the sermon. He wants to vie for the Matungu parliamentary seat on Amani National Congress (ANC) ticket.Salala joins other aspirants, including constituency ODM Chairman Paul Posho, Rodgers Okumu and Peter Nabulindo in the race to dethrone incumbent David Were.Were has said he will defend his seat on a Jubilee Party (JP) ticket after New Ford Kenya, on whose ticket he was elected in 2013, was dissolved. He is the longest serving legislator in Kakamega County after winning the seat for the first time in 2002. ALSO READ: Bishops endorse Wabukala to lead EACCANC life memberSalala is now an ANC member. He says exiting the office as bishop will not stop him from castigating the government, politicians and churches. He says he must always comment on matters of national interest and has been threatened for his criticism.When he was at Elukara Parish in Butere Diocese, Salala recalls that one day, three people visited the vicarage in the middle of the night and ordered him to open the door, but he declined.&ldquo;I told them to come back with the area assistant chief in case of anything. They came back, picked me and we drove to Kakamega provincial headquarters where they locked me up for three days,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;They were intimidating and harassing me inside the cells, asking why I was attacking the government and slamming the then President. I stood my ground and said I would not remain silent when people were being oppressed,&rdquo; he said.Salala says he was arrested several times, but never taken to court even once.Those who worked with Salala for the 15 years, including Diocesan Vicar General Joshua Kalerwa and Charles Keya, say the bishop was very strict on administrative matters. Mr Kalerwa schooled with Salala at Maseno Bible College in 1985.&ldquo;I witnessed the many times he was arrested because we were serving in the same diocese of Butere as priests. His character of criticising the government started back in college. He used to tell our lecturers off on their face anytime they went wrong,&rdquo; he said.Mr Keya said, &ldquo;He loved to work with people regardless of one&rsquo;s status. He would tell you off to your face whenever you made a mistake. One thing that stands out about him is that he does not hold grudges against anyone.&rdquo;Salala became bishop in 2002 when Maseno North Diocese, under the stewardship of the late Bishop William Shikukule, was split into two, giving birth to Mumias Diocese.He said he is proud that he is leaving behind a solid foundation of well-trained priests to steer the spiritual growth in the diocese.&ldquo;I know the value of education so I encouraged the priests to further their education, despite the small salaries they get,&rdquo; said the cleric.He said part of what he has achieved is the creation of additional parishes from 24 in 2002 to 38. There were about 8,000 ACK believers in Mumias, but Salala said the number has increased to 48,000.He also completed the Cathedral building that Shikukule had started and established Bishop Hanington Teacher&rsquo;s Training College, which trains P1 teachers.