Once again, proud Africans will stand up for the continents&rsquo; biggest sports extravaganza as the Africa Cup of Nations kicks off in Gabon today. Gabon is hosting Africa&rsquo;s premier tournament for the second time in a row. In 2015, they co-hosted the event with neighbours Equitorial Guinea. This year&rsquo;s tournament was in doubt due to the political upheavals that rocked the West African country. A bitter dispute erupted after the country&rsquo;s General Election, which nearly triggered a civil war.It is a good thing that the Confederation of African Football (CAF) kept its faith with Gabon and allowed the tournament to go on after teams were assured of their safety. As usual, the continent&rsquo;s fans will expect to be treated to exciting football during the three weeks of competition as teams parade their best players.It can be anyone&rsquo;s to win. From defending champions Ivory Coast to the 2015 finalists Ghana or Egypt who are coming back after missing the last edition, the trophy could go anywhere.However, it is sad that Kenya&rsquo;s Harambee Stars will be watching the tournament from the periphery as has been the case for many years, despite the huge evidence of talent. Kenyan midfielder Victor Wanyama leads a galaxy of star footballers plying their trade in Europe&rsquo;s top leagues. Why can&rsquo;t Kenya put together a formidable team to take on Africa&rsquo;s best? ALSO READ: Africa Cup of Nations squads and Fixtures (Kenyan Time)While at it, Africa&rsquo;s football federations must step up and constantly aim at improving the quality of soccer management. It is unfortunate to have constant squabbles among football officials as raw talent rots in villages across the continent.The Super Eagles of Nigeria are also out of this year&rsquo;s competition. Nigeria won the 2013 edition in South Africa but has since then faded away. The team is loved due to past exploits in the World Cup and the current drop in form is worrying.Another disappointment is that only Uganda will represent the East African region. This calls for a return to the drawing board and the introduction of measures to shore up fortunes of teams in East Africa. This should begin well before the 2019 finals when Cameroon hosts the tournament.In the meantime, stand up and enjoy the showpiece and may the best team take home the coveted trophy.