Kenya has secured a Sh10 billion loan from India to improve agricultural productivity.President Uhuru Kenyatta who is in India for the 8th Gujarat Global Summit held bilateral talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi. During the summit, Kenya entered into a number of agreements and signed Memorandum of Understanding (MoUs) with India.&quot;We are collaborating to raise agriculture productivity in Kenya. The line of credit of Sh10billion signed for agriculture mechanisation will help in this venture, but we have also opened a new dimension to up our engagement,&quot; said Modi.Uhuru also asked for India&#39;s help to train more medical practitioners. ALSO READ: President Uhuru receives full State honours with 21-gun salute in India&quot;I did request the PM for further scholarships in areas such as medicine, pharmacy, dentistry and ICT, which are relevant to our National government priority areas,&quot; he said.The leaders discussed various issues that threaten the stability of the two nations. Of concern was the provision of quality healthcare, education, agricultural productivity, security, Tourism, energy and ICT.&quot;We believe in democratic values and developmental priorities. Our discussions today reviewed the full range of our relationship. During my visit to Kenya last year, we had recognised deepening of our relations and one of the key focus areas of our efforts,&quot; said Modi.The PM emphasized that expansion of bilateral trade, greater flow of capital between the two economies and stronger development partnership as cornerstones for enhanced ties.&quot;We have directed the joint working group on security cooperation to meet at an early date. Our focus will be on cyber security, counter terrorism, combating drugs, narcotics, human trafficking and money laundering,&quot; said the PM.Uhuru lauded India&#39;s initiative to offer scholarships and training opportunities for Kenyans especially in medicine and pharmacy.&quot;The establishment of a cancer hospital and provision of treatment, equipment supported by the Indian government is greatly anticipated as it will go a long way to ensure quality affordable treatment,&quot; he said. ALSO READ: DP Ruto asks Rift Valley leaders to back Uhuru with eye on 2022Uhuru said Kenya relies heavily on the generic ARVs drugs manufactured in India ensuring that drugs are available to people infected with HIV.&quot;India&#39;s exchange of health services is globally acknowledged. Many of our country men and women travel to India every year. Advanced technology, coupled with price competitiveness makes your country a preferred destination for thousands of Kenyans seeking quality healthcare,&quot; he said.The two leaders directed speedy implementation of the summit&#39;s agreements as well as the other agreements reached in Nairobi.