Motorists plying the Eldoret-Kabarnet road have complained of numerous bumps erected along the 30km stretch between Iten and Eldoret towns.There are more than 10 illegal bumps. Some of them are as high as one and half feet.The bumps have been haphazardly erected by locals reacting to speeding vehicles that occasionally knock down pedestrians. Many accidents have occurred as a result of the bumps. At the same time, motorists are sometimes waylaid and robbed as they slow down at the bumps.The motorists said the road is dangerous, especially to those using it for the first time. They also complained that they incur huge loses in repairing their damaged vehicles.Sabulei Kiprono, a regular motorist on the route, said several cars were last week involved in an accident at the Chepkinoiyo trading centre near Iten bumps. ALSO READ: Three dead, 20 injured after driver deliberately crashes car into pedestrians&quot;The motorists were oblivious of the bumps and were driving at high speed, they lost control hitting the barricade. It was by luck that no one was hurt but the vehicles were extensively damaged,&quot; he said.He added: &quot;All these bumps even the ones erected by the concerned Government agencies are unmarked and there are no warning signs thus making this road dangerous.&quot;He blamed the National Transport and Safety Authority for turning a blind eye on the state of affairs, saying motorists are not to blame for the accidents.&quot;Why is it that in other areas, no bump has been erected for hundreds of kilometres but here, within less than a kilometre, there are several bumps?&quot; he wondered, adding, &quot;Something should be done urgently to rectify the situation.&quot;Vincent Kiptoo, a boda boda rider, sustained fatal head injuries after hitting an illegal bump erected along the road.&quot;I blame the bump for my predicament. I never knew it had been erected despite being a regular user of the road,&quot; said Mr Kiptoo who has since abandoned the business.He called on the responsible State agencies to rein in on those illegally erecting the bumps. ALSO READ: NTSA says road carnage reduced by 13pc in 2016&quot;Our roads are ruled by cartels who want to cause mayhem to motorists. Some laugh at a motorist when they are stuck on the bumps while criminals take advantage to rob people,&quot; said Kiptoo. Matatu operators have not been spared losses resulting from the bumps.