CORD leaders have demanded the immediate arrest of Majority Leader Aden Duale over remarks of incitement attributed to him.In a voice recording doing the rounds on social media, a voice alleged to be that of Mr Duale is heard instructing youths in Garissa not to allow non-locals - from the Kamba community - to register as voters. Led by Kalonzo Musyoka, the CORD leaders have threatened to sue Duale in the International Criminal Court (ICC) for the tribal utterances.Speaking in Kisaju, Kajiado County, over the weekend, Kalonzo dismissed Duale&#39;s defence that he was not guilty of threatening the Kamba in Garissa not to vote, saying that was a gimmick to evade the wrath of the law. Kalonzo said if no action was taken against the Garissa Town MP, the Opposition would resort to ICC. ALSO READ: Duale grilled over anti-Kamba audio clipGlaring injustice&quot;I want to challenge the security agencies and the Director of Public Prosecutions to ensure that Duale faces the law over tribal utterances. His move to dismiss the recording as malicious will not yield any fruit. Failure to take action against him is a glaring injustice being practised by the Jubilee government,&quot; he said.He said in case of any insecurity incident against the Kamba people in Garissa, Duale should be held accountable. He added that ICC would be Kenya&#39;s only recourse.&quot;Under international law, Duale can face counts of forceful eviction and crime of genocide among others. We cannot watch a country governed through injustice by a few selfish individuals protected by the Government,&quot; said the Wiper Party leader.Siaya Senator James Orengo described Duale as a person who did not have the interests of Kenyans at heart.&quot;It&#39;s unfortunate that we still have leaders without brains creating tribal animosity among Kenyan communities. We do not want violence during the 2017 polls. Action must be taken against Duale,&quot; said Mr Orengo.Garissa Governor Nathif Jama said the recording did not represent the views of other leaders and people of Garissa. ALSO READ: Take firm action against Duale for reckless remarks