Gunmen killed a VIP protection officer attached to a principal secretary in Nairobi on Friday evening.Sergeant Asbel Kipkorir had just arrived at an Administration Police camp along Kangundo Road in Umoja estate and was offloading food items he had bought for his family when he was attacked. He was shot in the head twice by gunmen riding on a motorbike.Mr Kipkorir (pictured), who was attached to Natural Resources Principal Secretary Margaret Mwakima, died while receiving treatment in Nairobi West Hospital.The motive of the attack in which his gun was stolen remains unclear but reports indicate that the gang intended to rob him only to realise he was armed when they frisked him.Security forces revealed that the attackers shot him only when they forced him to lie down and, on frisking him, found he had a gun. Police believe the attackers killed Kipkorir with his own gun.Earlier, Kipkorir and a colleague had dropped Dr Mwakima at her house. He then dropped his colleague at Mbagathi AP Camp before driving to his house in Umoja.Witnesses said Kipkorir had parked outside his house and was waiting for his children to come and help carry the shopping bags.It was as the children were coming out of the house that gunshots rent the air. They found their father lying in a pool of blood. With him was the watchman who was helping him to remove the shopping from the unmarked Toyota Prado assigned to the PS.The watchman was not harmed.Yesterday, his widow Atalaida Jerop, children and parents - Daniel and Leah Limo - mourned at the home of Esri Eastern Africa Managing Director Judah Bett. Mr Bett is Kipkorir&#39;s uncle.Buru Buru criminal intelligence chief Jeremiah Ikiao said no arrests had been made but they were looking for the killers.&quot;The attackers rode off after grabbing the weapon and shooting the officer but efforts to get them are ongoing,&quot; he said. Teams of police officers were tasked with finding the killers.Elsewhere, an officer attached to the General Service Unit&#39;s Recce Squad is in hospital after he was shot at the Magongo Navy Base in Lamu County.Constable Anthony Wanjohi was admitted to the Magongo Navy Base hospital in serious condition after being shot allegedly by his colleague, a Constable Kiplangat, following an argument.Their seniors revealed that the two had argued at their Mlimani base when the shooting happened. Kiplangat was arrested and is expected in court today, police said.And at the Ngara roundabout, a suspected thug was shot dead by police in a botched robbery. Police said the suspect was in the company of three others who were robbing motorists held up in a traffic jam.