Last week&rsquo;s decision by former Cabinet minister Kipruto Kirwa to join the Musalia Mudavadi-led Amani National Congress (ANC) is causing ripples in the Rift Valley.Political observers say his appointment as ANC deputy party leader may significantly trim Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s influence as the vote-rich region&rsquo;s political kingpin. Kirwa, a long time political ally of Ruto, is a shrewd strategist known for his vast experience and political resilience. His entry may be headache to Ruto, who has has been fighting to retain his grip of the region where JP rebels and Kanu supporters have been critical of the Jubilee administration.In the populous Kipsigis community, Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto has been chipping away the DP&rsquo;s support using his Chama Cha Mashinani party. And in Baringo, the Kanu tide has been growing fast against Jubilee. Kirwa, some say, could easily eat into the Nandi vote basket.&ldquo;Kirwa is a firebrand politician and a key leader of the Nandi community. He was part of the original UDM that brought together the DP and politician Cyrus Jirongo. His influence cannot be underestimated,&rdquo; says political analyst Walter Chesang. ALSO READ: Jubilee mocks opposition unity driveChesang says Kirwa represents a larger constituency of voters in Nandi region. Before joining ANC, Kirwa had decamped from New Ford-Kenya, which later dissolved to join the Jubilee Party. But for a long time, he has been away from active politics, and when asked if he still had clout, the former minister replied he had only taken a sabbatical.&ldquo;I have been working in the background but now I am back in town to shape things up. We may not agree in politics, but let us accept that the country belongs to us and we can&rsquo;t afford to do what the other side is doing &mdash; trying to jeopardise elections,&rdquo; he told The Standard on Sunday on phone.Analysts says the move by ANC to pick Kirwa is strategic. &ldquo;Kirwa is key political figure in the region. He is an aggressive politician and complements Mudavadi&rsquo;s gentle demeanor. The coming together of these two leaders will stir the political scene as we head to the August 8 polls, &ldquo; says University of Eldoret political science lecturer Philip Chebunet.Joined frayKirwa&rsquo;s entry into the political fray comes at a time Mudavadi continues drumming up support for his presidential bid, days after he was named Luhya community political Kingpin and spokesperson. Kirwa&rsquo;s move to join ANC has been warmly received by DP Ruto&rsquo;s critics.Kuresoi South MP Zakayo Cheruiyot says Kiwa&rsquo;s inclusion in the opposition super alliance (Nasa) should not be take lightly.&ldquo;It will definitely have an impact especially if Jubilee will bungle the party primaries. There will likely be a major fall out and ANC - with Kirwa in Rift Valley- will be home to many votes,&rdquo; said the rebel Jubilee politician, who has indicated he is likely to defend his seat on a different party ticket in August. He added: &ldquo;The walls around Jubilee are crumbling fast by the day and the DP must rethink his strategy because he has created a lot of political enemies in his own backyard. Ruto should stop using force, insulting and disrespecting elected leaders. He should stop his dictatorial tendencies.&rdquo; ALSO READ: DP Ruto asks Rift Valley leaders to back Uhuru with eye on 2022However, Ruto&rsquo;s allies in the region have downplayed Kirwa&rsquo;s influence in the region. &ldquo;Kirwa lost the Trans Nzoia Senate seat to Henry Ndiema because he was not popular in the region. What makes anyone think he can make an impact this time around?&rdquo; posed Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen.Murkomen said local leaders should support Ruto instead of fighting him politically.&ldquo;The political onslaught against the DP is uncalled for. They should understand that the DP has worked hard to be where he is now and instead of fighting him, they support him because they do not stand a chance,&rdquo; he said.Critics accuse the DP of being arrogance, saying his leadership style is to blame for discord within Jubilee.Recently during the funeral of former Nominated MP Mark Too, the political rivalry between the DP and Kanu chairman Gideon Moi played out in the presence of President Uhuru Kenyatta.