Janet Wangare is a desperate mother, she yearns for the day she will meet her 11-year-old son who disappeared from home on November 15, 2016.Morgan Kibe, a Standard Five pupil at St Peter&rsquo;s Boys Primary School, left home in Ndimu village to visit an aunt at Elburgon town - located just three kilometres away - and has not been home since. Wangare says she left home at about 7am to work in a factory at Elburgon town leaving Ndung&rsquo;u with his younger sibling.&ldquo;I left my first born son with his sibling at home and requested him to feed the livestock and then study because he was to prepare for his end of year exams,&rdquo; she said.She later came to learn that Kibe&rsquo;s friends came calling and after he finished his chores, her son left with them to play in the neighbourhood. At around 3pm, Kibe is said to have left his friends saying he was going to visit his aunt and that was the last they saw of him. ALSO READ: Kakamega grandparents' desperate search for missing teen&ldquo;When he did not come back that evening, I thought he had decided to stay over at his friend&rsquo;s house but when he did not show up the next day, I started calling relatives and friends but they did not know his whereabouts,&rdquo; she said.She later reported his disappearance at Elburgon Police Station and despite the officers and local administrators joining in the search, they are yet to find the minor.Kibe&rsquo;s disappearance has disoriented the family and Wangare says it has been difficult for her to operate normally because she now spends most of her time going to look for him in various towns.She describes her son as a loving, caring and responsible person who seemed to know when she was low or frustrated and would find a way to encourage her.&ldquo;My son is very caring. There are times I would fail to provide him with necessities because of financial constraints but he always understood and would encourage me to have hope. He would also lead the family in prayers and took care of his younger sibling at school and home,&rdquo; she said.Kibe&rsquo;s father, Yusuf Ndung&rsquo;u, said the incident has left the family restless and they spend sleepless night wondering where he could be.&ldquo;I have nothing to say. Whenever I think of going to work, I turn back and start visiting various trading centers just to see if I will spot him,&rdquo; he said. The family however, remains optimistic that Kibe will be found and they live for the day that will happen. ALSO READ: Police reject Haki Africa report on extrajudicial killings and disappearances&ldquo;I cling to the hope that my son will be found alive. I am convinced he was either kidnapped by an ill-intention person or he may have traveled to a different region. But, I know he is alive and I yearn for the day he will knock at my door and be welcomed with a broad smile,&rdquo; she enthused.Molo OCPD Daniel Kamanza confirmed his officers are aware of the child&rsquo;s disappearance and said the information has been circulated to various police stations.Kamanza however, cautioned parents to be extra vigilant in monitoring their children&rsquo;s movement saying cases of minor&rsquo;s disappearing are on the increase.&ldquo;The search for this young boy has been intensified and we hope to find him soon. I also must caution parents to be keen on who their children interact and associate with because there are some who end up joining bad company who influence them to leave home,&rdquo; he said.