President Uhuru Kenyatta has called on Maasai leaders&nbsp; to help mobilise the registration of voters who are in support of Jubilee Party in Kajiado County.Speaking at State House where he had hosted them yesterday, the President dismissed claims by the opposition that the Government had not fulfilled the pledges it made to Kenyans. The President said the government had commissioned and completed various development projects&nbsp; in Kajiado in the past three and half years, and declared that no other government had &ldquo;done what Jubilee has done for the Maasai.&rdquo;&ldquo;The Jubilee government has done a lot in Kajiado&mdash; from establishing technical training institutes, to launching water projects, roads and&nbsp; increasing electricity connections,&rdquo; said the President.He said more than 60,000 households have been connected to electricity in Kajiado. Furthermore, he noted, some roads are still under construction, and more new roads will be commissioned soon. Some of the roads constructed are the Isinya-Mashuru and Ngong-Kiserian roads. ALSO READ: Duale already proved he&rsquo;s unfit to hold public officeHe said&nbsp; the Opposition has continued to diminish Jubilee&rsquo;s achievement yet its leaders had nothing to show for the decades they had served in government.&ldquo;Musalia Mudavadi joined Government as a Cabinet minister when I was still in school. He was plucked from school and appointed a minister, and to date he cannot show what he did for Kenyans,&rdquo; the President pointed out.&ldquo;Kalonzo Musyoka has been in government for a&nbsp; long time yet he cannot point at any project he ever initiated. Raila Odinga, who had half the government as Prime Minister, did nothing for the people of Kenya,&rsquo;&rsquo; President Kenyatta said.On the land issue in Kajiado, the President said Siaya Senator James Orengo, who was the Lands Minister under the Grand Coalition, had done little to resolve the land issues facing the people of Kajiado County.&ldquo;They say Jubilee government is grabbing land in Kajiado. Let one person show any land taken over by the Government. In fact, when Orengo was Lands minister, he unprocedurally allocated land in Lamu. It is the Jubilee Government which cancelled the title deeds and gave back the land to the people of Lamu,&rsquo;&rsquo; the Head of State said.The President urged Kajiado leaders to spearhead the mass voter registration exercise which starts on Monday.Water Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, who was present, outlined water projects the Government is undertaking in Kajiado. He said the Sh1.2 billion Loitokitok water project will soon be launched, in addition to the Sh1.3 billion phase two Kiserian Dam water project. Also in the pipeline is a Sh1.2 billion project to sink 50 boreholes in rural Kajiado. Fourteen&nbsp; of these boreholes have already been sunk. ALSO READ: NASA's fury as Joho, MPs arrested in gun drama The leaders assured the President that they would back Jubilee. Leaders present included Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery, MPs Katoo ole Metito (Kajiado South), Moses Ole Sakuda (Kajiado West) and Peris Tobiko (Kajiado East).Others were Janet Teyiaa (nominated) and Mary Senata (Women Rep).