Bungoma County Jubilee Party Chairman John Waluke (L) talks to Deputy Governor Hillary Chongwony (Right) at Santa Maria hotel in Bungoma town (PHOTO: TITUS OTEBA/STANDARD) Bungoma Deputy Governor Hillary Chongwony has been appointed the county&#39;s Jubilee Party secretary general. The appointment was made at the Deputy Presidents William Ruto&#39;s Karen home on Tuesday and witnessed by a number of leaders and aspirants from Mt Elgon. Bungoma Governor Kenneth Lusaka is touted to be the Jubilee Party National Chairman is the current Western region point man. Chongwony pledged to work closely with the branch&#39;s chair John Waluke, who is also the MP for Sirisia. Waluke was a fortnight ago endorsed as the county Jubilee Party Chairman by party aspirants and supporters. Waluke who recently decamped from ODM pledged to fast track opening of JP offices in the county to enable them register many members. &quot;Jubilee Party will hold a fair and free nominations. Those who will fail should support the winners instead of running away. United we succeed, divided we fail,&quot; said Waluke. During the stormy meeting at Santa Maria hotel in Bungoma town, over 300 aspirants for various seats endorsed Waluke whom they described as having guts to sell Jubilee Party in Bungoma County which is considered an opposition zone. Mr.Chongwony got the chance to serve in the Secretariat because he comes from the minority Sabaot community in Mt Elgon which voted for the Jubilee government&nbsp;in the 2013 general elections. &quot;The appointment follows a closed door meeting of leaders from Mt Elgon at the Deputy President William Ruto&#39;s residence in Karen, Nairobi, where the decision was reached upon,&quot; said Amos Chemabus, a politician. Contacted, Mr Chongwony said his elevation is a crucial recognition and appreciation to the people of Mt Elgon. &quot;I am happy to have been endorsed JP Secretary General in the county. This is not a mean achievement and I hope to propel the party to the highest level possible. I will work together with all like-minded leaders and supporters as we engage in popularising the party,&quot; said Chongwony. Present during the meeting were Mr Elgon parliamentary aspirants Mokin Ptang&#39;uny, Evans Chemwotei, Harry Kimtai, Janepher Mbatiany, Moss Ndiema, Peter Sirai and Michael Kawon. Ward leaders included, County Assembly Deputy Speaker Jane Chebet, Ben Kipkut, Enock Chemorion, Peter Cherui, Godwin Ndege and Jane Cheberenger.