Confrontation between the State and the Opposition escalated on Friday after Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho was briefly detained alongside three MPs and other leaders at the Mombasa police headquarters under unclear circumstances.Governor Joho, Abdulsamad Nassir (Mvita), Rashid Bedzimba (Kisauni), Suleiman Dori (Msambweni) were held and later released after they stormed the Urban Police Station, following the arrest of the governor&rsquo;s ally. Also detained were five Members of the County Assembly. Opposition leaders said the Jubilee leadership was against criticism because they knew that they had not delivered on their mandate.Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka called for the unconditional release of the governor saying he was being harassed for standing up against Jubilee. &ldquo;The country should not take the road that Jubilee wants to take us. This kind of intolerance is unacceptable. They have gone berserk and cannot listen to the truth but we will not entertain such action in the modern Kenya,&rdquo; said Musyoka. Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi also expressed shock at &ldquo;the absolutely ridiculous action&rdquo; by a government engaging in intimidation of Opposition leaders to cow them. ALSO READ: Over 30 Jubilee, Opposition MPs cross over to the Federal Party of Kenya&ldquo;These are signs that all is not well with them, the panic can be seen on their faces and that is why they have resorted to primitive ways of intimidation,&rdquo; said Mudavadi. &ldquo;They have been clearly setting up grounds for his arrest by taking away his guards. We call for his unconditional release.&rdquo;Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula said the harassment of leaders, criminalisation of political activities and free speech is a dangerous trend that can tear the country apart. &ldquo;I condemn the arrest and intimidation of Governor Joho in the strongest terms possible,&rdquo; he said.Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama and his Siaya counterpart James Orengo termed Joho&rsquo;s detention as continued incarceration of the opposition which began with him and other leaders last year.Paramilitary police&ldquo;This is abuse of power, intolerance and the the highest degree authoritarianism, I have seen the reports and the pictures from Mombasa. His arrest was uncalled for and a travesty of human rights that we condemn,&rdquo; said Orengo.Joho and the MPs walked out of police headquarters a few minutes to 9pm after close to six hours.They had to seek the release of Mr Ibrahim Kharthi who had been detained earlier over unestablished reasons. &ldquo;We came here to find out why the young man was arrested but an inspector told us we were under arrest,&rdquo; Joho told jubilant supporters, adding that they were accused of &ldquo;obstructing justice.&rdquo; ALSO READ: Jubilee meets to tackle NASA as focus turns to MudavadiA defiant Joho, who had been joined by Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi, declared that their tribulations would not cow them. &ldquo;We thank all of you who have stood with us. We declare here that there is no word like cowardice in our vocabulary,&rdquo; said Joho. He said the others will be freed today.Local leaders and the media had been barred from entering the Regional Police Headquarters.The events were a culmination of day-long cat and mouse chase between the police and the relatives of the governor who termed the raids as &lsquo;police persecution&rsquo; against him.&ldquo;We are not going to allow anyone to get in. We have instructions from above,&rdquo; said an officer who was manning the gate.His lawyer Mohammed Balala revealed that the four MCAs who were held by police were from Lamu and Mombasa counties.?But last evening Mombasa police boss Philip Tuimur denied the governor and the MPs had been detained.Mr Tuimur said: &ldquo; Joho and the leaders were at the station to seek the release of a suspect who had been arrested earlier.&rdquo; ALSO READ: Over 30 Jubilee, Opposition MPs cross over to the Federal Party of KenyaEarlier in the day, the Mombasa governor had accused security officials of intimidating his friends and relatives to reveal his whereabouts.Joho said a friend&rsquo;s house was raided by police claiming to be searching for illegal firearms.He did not disclose the location of the house that was raided by police but The Standard on Saturday established it was conducted on a warehouse or homestead in the Nyali area yesterday.Relations between Joho and the state have dropped to new low following his harsh criticism of President Uhuru Kenyatta last weekend.&ldquo;My friend&rsquo;s house was ransacked this morning (yesterday). I have told my friends and relatives to be psychologically prepared for such harassment by the national government. I do not want my friends to be dragged into this matter,&rdquo; he noted.