Opposition leader Raila Odinga has called on his young supporters to mobilise residents to register as voters ahead of what he termed a do or die moment election.Speaking at the Kakamega County Bus Park yesterday, Raila sought to know why voter registration turnout was low in many stations in the region and asked the youth to help mobilise the exercise.&ldquo;I want to ask every youth to be on the front-line to champion for voter registration in this region,&rdquo; he said. The CORD principal said there was need for everyone to support the course to send Jubilee home in the August election.Sacks of moneyRaila, accompanied by Kakamega County Governor Wycliffe Oparanya caused laughter when he said the only remaining project for Jubilee was to run around in choppers with sacks of money pretending to launch non-existent projects because they failed to deliver during their tenure. ALSO READ: Raila: President Uhuru Kenyatta is the patron of corruption cartels&ldquo;Time is moving fast; they thought five years would never end. The only remaining thing for them is to start launching latrines in your homes. Do not ask for handouts kindly register and leave the rest to me,&rdquo; he said.And speaking at Bungoma County&rsquo;s Posta Grounds, Raila said the only way to save the country was through marshalling eligible voters to participate in the coming polls.&ldquo;Kenyans have suffered for the last five years yet the Jubilee Government is all over launching ghost projects with no budget allocated. The cost of living has also skyrocketed; I urge Bungoma locals to use their votes well in August,&rsquo;&rsquo; said the former premier.He observed that the recently opened Rai Paper factory was sold at a throw way price and does not reflect its real value. &ldquo;Pan Paper Mills was bought at Sh900 million, which is not the real value considering all the assets the company has. Leaders have interest in the company that took over,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said.The ODM party leader reiterated that this time round the Opposition will be keen to ensure no vote is stolen during the elections.&ldquo;We know their strategy and we will counter that by having our supporters and agents keenly watch and monitor as votes are counted. There will be serious consequences if they attempt to steal,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said.Raila took the opportunity to drum up support for Opposition unity through Nasa to dislodge Jubilee from power. &ldquo;We need to unite. We are like houses in a homestead and if we are united nobody can threaten the home. That way we can send the enemy away,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Prove voter rigging claims, Nkaissery challenges RailaThe rally was attended by Ford Kenya Party Leader and CORD co-principal, Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula, ODM Deputy Party Leader and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale and MPs Eseli Simiyu, Chris Wamalwa and Wafula Wamunyinyi.Wetang&rsquo;ula too called for Opposition unity, saying it was the only way to clinch power.&ldquo;If a leader is not ready to sacrifice, they are not worthy to be a leader. That is why Raila, Kalonzo Musyoka and I are ready to work together to save this country,&rdquo; he said.Oparanya further called on the Opposition to settle on a presidential flag bearer.&ldquo;I ask Raila and the other three presidential candidates to agree on who will be leader. The earlier it is done the better for us,&rdquo; he said.Dr Khalwale said the government needed to solve the doctors strike since ordinary Kenyans cannot afford private health care.&ldquo;Kenyans are suffering and the government should offer a quick solution,&rdquo; he said. The Opposition later held another rally in Webuye town. ALSO READ: Raila appeals to the Luo to stick with Joho and ODM