Uniserv is well known now in East Africa - almost a household name for connecting quality students to well-ranked universities around the world. Uniserv assists applicants with each process in their quest to enrol at the university of their choice. We take on the worry and hassle of meeting the various application deadlines and giving our students timely information on application processes for their courses, finding and booking suitable accommodation, and giving information on new developments in visa processes.&nbsp; In other words, we hold your hand and float you through all the important procedures!The January and February intake for many universities around the world is a very busy time. Students who did not manage to get an offer for the main September intake the previous year get a second chance to enrol without having to wait another year. For some universities like those in the UK, post graduate and Foundation programs begin in January. Uniserv can offer more than 100 UK universities to choose from&nbsp;and works with hundreds of other universities which take in a good number of students in the first few months of the year. In fact in Australia, February happens to be the main intake, especially for post graduate students.&nbsp; As for USA and Canada - May is the next possible intake. For applications for programs taught in English in European countries like Germany, Holland, Spain and Switzerland the May intake is also available. So if you are determined to enrol in the next few months whether it be for postgraduate entry, or even for foundation programs which will prepare you to progress directly to university in September 2017, there is a window of opportunity NOW.As for the latest tranche of KCSE graduates who will be looking for universities early next year, the better prepared you are the more stress-free will be your university application experience. You may apply for the September&nbsp; 2017 intake but why wait till then if you are ready to go now? Did you know you can even apply with mock results to find out if you can get offers of admission? And for all the professional services Uniserv offers, we do not charge any fees.&nbsp;If students and parents feel they would like to meet the many university representatives who visit us especially for the various fairs we organize, it would be useful to diarise certain dates: at the end of January Uniserv has a fair for universities from Turkey and Cyprus; at the end of February will host universities from many other countries and in March there is the UK fair. Do check the Uniserv website for more details. To register please go to- register.uniserveducation.com ALSO READ: Universities suffer major blow as poor results kill parallel programme