Nyamira Senator Kennedy Okong&rsquo;o has vowed to go ahead with his impeachment motion against President Uhuru Kenyatta.Mr Okong&rsquo;o, who last week declared his interest in running for the presidency in August&rsquo;s elections, wants Uhuru impeached for his handling of the ongoing doctors&rsquo; strike and poor governance, among other grounds. The senator said he would table the motion in Senate next month.According to Okong&rsquo;o, failure by the country&rsquo;s top leaders to address the striking doctors&rsquo; grievances was among the multiple failures by the Head of State to provide solutions to the country&rsquo;s challenges.Okong&rsquo;o spoke as he outlined his agenda for the country after launching his bid for the presidency. ALSO READ: Uhuru vows to deepen war on graft as he calls for political tolerance ahead of August electionsFAILED COUNTRIESThe senator argued that failed countries led by presidents perceived to be dictators were fairing better than Kenya in some areas.&ldquo;Zimbabwe, which people say is led by dictatorial policies, for example, is better than Kenya which brags about being a free democracy state, because everyone in that country is free from hunger. That is the same case with our neighbours in Uganda. What is wrong with us in Kenya? Why do we brag about being ahead of the two countries economically?&rdquo; posed Okong&rsquo;o.He said limited access to safe water, hunger, soaring prices of basic commodities and the current paralysis in the health sector were just a few of the many problems bedeviling the country&ldquo;Only in Kenya do you find that water, which is locally available, is more expensive than the oil we import from Arabia. This is so because of poor leadership. How then do we boast of democracy when so many people are dying of hunger?&rdquo; he asked.According to the senator, Kenya should be kicked out of the United Nations for failing to live up to the expectations stipulated in the international organisation&rsquo;s charter.The senator, who spoke during a special ceremony at his Sironga home where he was blessed by community elders to run for president, challenged Uhuru to tell Kenyans the number of people who had died following the nationwide doctors&rsquo; strike. He vowed to fight corruption and promote national values that respect the country&rsquo;s multi-ethnic nature, and called for an end to the long history of family political dynasties. ALSO READ: Uhuru declines to meet demands of striking medics&ldquo;We cannot have only two families dominating our country&rsquo;s leadership. I believe this trend will come to an end very soon after I shall have dealt with Uhuru and Raila squarely in the elections,&rdquo; said Okong&rsquo;o.