Water rationing has kicked off in major estates in the city as announced by the Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company. This is as a result of a drop in the capacity of water at Ndakaini dam, the main reservoir serving Nairobi.According to the company&#39;s management, the exercise is expected to continue until the start of long rains in March. The company has released a programme of the estates to be affected and on which days. But water shortage is not new to Nairobi residents and many have been forced to rely on water vendors. Cartels have come in, creating artificial shortages to sell the commodity to residents at exorbitant prices. Some residents are forced to spend up to Sh4,000 a week to buy water. Some estates can go for weeks without a drop of water from their taps.The rationing will only serve to worsen the already bad condition. Now that rationing is here with us, Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company must follow the programme they have released on the rationing.Let the estates have water on the scheduled days. This will spare them from the hands of the water cartels. In the long run, the company must move to eliminate the cartels who fleece residents after creating artificial shortages.r rationing has kicked off in major estates in the city as announced by the Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company. This is as a result of a drop in the capacity of water at Ndakaini dam, the main reservoir serving Nairobi.According to the company&#39;s management, the exercise is expected to continue until the start of long rains in March. The company has released a programme of the estates to be affected and on which days. But water shortage is not new to Nairobi residents and many have been forced to rely on water vendors.Cartels have come in, creating artificial shortages to sell the commodity to residents at exorbitant prices. Some residents are forced to spend up to Sh4,000 a week to buy water. Some estates can go for weeks without a drop of water from their taps.The rationing will only serve to worsen the already bad condition. Now that rationing is here with us, Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company must follow the programme they have released on the rationing.Let the estates have water on the scheduled days. This will spare them from the hands of the water cartels. In the long run, the company must move to eliminate the cartels who fleece residents after creating artificial shortages.