Florence Pakata, 50, from Kakamega County became deaf at the age of seven.She had to contend with many obstacles along her path but she remained focused and today holds a Master&rsquo;s degree in Curriculum studies and is a curriculum developer at Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development.HER STORY I became deaf after a battle with malaria and this changed my life. My confidence took a dip and I found I was always embarrassed because I could not hear and this became worse as my friends started to shun me.People thought I was cursed and my parents also faced rejection in the village. The villagers referred to me as a mad child and they did not allow their children to play or associate with me. I almost gave up on my life but this changed after I was admitted to Mumias School for the deaf where I learned sign language.I took to my studies seriously and consistently did well in my studies which got me selected to join St Mary&rsquo;s Mumias Girls Secondary school. My teachers encouraged me and this inspired me to be focused.After high school, I wanted to further my studies but several colleges refused to admit me in their institutions because of my condition. However, I was lucky to be accepted at Sang&rsquo;alo Institute of Agriculture and Technology where I graduated with a certificate in agriculture after two years in the college.Although I performed well, I did not get a job and after staying at home for three years, my father took me to Machakos Teachers Training College where I trained as a primary school teacher. I was later posted to Mumias School for the deaf.In 1997, I joined the Kenya Institute of Special Education for my Diploma in Special Education. Later, I went to Kenyatta University for my Degree in Education specialising on special needs-hearing impairment. Then in 2014, I enrolled for my Master&rsquo;s Degree in Curriculum Studies at the University of Nairobi.I have, for the past ten years, worked at KICD as a curriculum developer and my work entails writing books in sign language for learners with hearing impairment across all cadres of education.My message to anyone with a disability is: Accept yourself and be strong to face the world because we do not have a society for persons with disabilities. We are all equal and we must raise our children in the right way.