Nairobi Gubernatorial aspirant Peter Kenneth during a church service. (Photo David Njaaga/Standard)Nairobi governor aspirant Peter Kenneth has warned that infighting among the contestants for the Jubilee Party ticket may cost them the seat.Mr Kenneth said Jubilee risks scoring an own goal if various camps contesting for the party ticket pull in different directions. &quot;It is important that we speak in on voice. We do not want to score an own goal by fighting ourselves. We need to work as a team. We are extending an olive branch to the others for the sake of the Jubilee Party. We need to be seen to be talking to one another not at one another,&quot; he said.The aspirant who announced his candidature last week was speaking at the Presbyterian Church of East Africa (PCEA) in Kayole during a church service.There have been reports of vicious infighting in the Jubilee camp as various aspirants seek to wrestle the position from Governor Evans Kidero of CORD. ALSO READ: Stop it! Uhuru Kenyatta warns wrangling Nairobi gubernatorial aspirantsThe divisions have been fueled by talk of a secret line up that favours Kenneth again his opponents.crowded fieldOthers who have expressed interest in the Jubilee ticket are Senator Mike Sonko, nominated MP Johnson Sakaja, Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru and former Starehe MP Margaret Wanjiru.Meanwhile, Dr Kidero has hit out at the Jubilee administration saying it does not stand a chance to win the city&#39;s top seat.The governor referred to the Jubilee aspirants as disorganised and cannot win in the August elections.&quot;We are an organised house and they should put theirs in order first before gunning for my position. I am ready for any one fronted by Jubilee, &quot;said Kidero.Speaking at a church in Nairobi over the weekend, Kidero said he would ensure CORD clinched all the positions in the Senate and Parliament to ensure a clean win against Jubilee. Last week, a section of the Jubilee leaders in Nairobi demanded that the party uses equal standards in deciding who will be the party&#39;s flag bearer in the race for governor. ALSO READ: Stop it! Uhuru Kenyatta warns wrangling Nairobi gubernatorial aspirants