Claims and counter-claims of vote rigging continue to dominate Kenyan news. And these, coming from both sides of the political divide, have made some very depressing reading. The Opposition threw the first salvo by claiming the Government had schemed to use non-existent voters to win the August 8, 2017 elections, giving as their reason the Government&rsquo;s determination to use manual back-up systems in August in case the electronic system failed as happened in 2013. Despite vehement opposition, President Uhuru Kenyatta proceeded to sign the contentious Electoral Laws (Amendment) Bill 2016 into law.In his speech during the 2016 Jamhuri day&rsquo;s celebrations, Uhuru claimed foreign governments were using Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) to fund the Opposition to manipulate the August polls. Picking cue from there, the NGO council of Kenya claimed that International Foundation for Electoral Systems (IFES), was a conduit for sending funds to the Opposition. Despite having worked closely with the Government since 2008, attempts were made to discredit IFES by saying it was not registered.The Opposition maintains the Government is up to mischief and keen to stitch up the August elections, an accusation the Government counters by saying the Opposition is intent on setting the country on fire. And indeed, both sides of the political divide are guilty of polarising the country at a time unity should be the overriding issue. Time without number this newspaper has cautioned against going the 2008 route, but our leaders seem set to gain advantage over each other at whatever cost.There is no shortage of issues the Government and Opposition can address, but they have chosen to turn a blind eye and deaf ear. As leaders politic, Kenyans are dying because of a prolonged doctors&#39; strike. Drought is ravaging the country. Lecturers are on strike and petroleum transporters are on a go-slow, paralysing transport and industries but leaders have conveniently chosen to ignore these issues. The country must come before self. ALSO READ: IEBC must address registration concerns