Today marks 28 days of a healthcare system in paralysis. Four weeks of an impasse that has brought untold human suffering to millions of Kenyans around the country.Nearly all public hospitals remain deserted and devoid of meaningful service. Doctors have been on strike since December 5, protesting the delayed acknowledgment and implementation of a previously agreed upon collective bargaining agreement. A reclusive Ministry of Health on the other hand cuts the figure of an aloof institution devoid of solutions. But between the doctors demands and the executive&rsquo;s unwillingness to engage in meaningful conversation lies suffering patients who have long given up on finding a care giver at the nearest public and/or referral hospital even if on a mercy mission.The damage from this stalemate is staggering as a sick republic struggles to find alternative care.Chemotherapy and radio therapy sessions, critical for those fighting cancer have since been suspended. Whole wards stand unoccupied, just like ghost towns. Private healthcare is expensive to most Kenyans. ALSO READ: Nakuru nurses vow to continue with strikeMission hospitals have become the place of refuge. But these too are stretched beyond their capabilities. &ldquo;Faith-based organisations and private healthcare facilities have done a lot to cushion Kenyans from suffering.But we are at a breaking point,&rdquo; Shadrack Mamati, a doctor at the Lugulu Mission Hospital in Bungoma County told The Standard on Sunday.He added, &ldquo;Most of us have been doing 16 to 20 hour shifts. We have seen so much suffering it is becoming unbearable,&rdquo; he said.On an ordinary day in Kisumu&rsquo;s biggest hospital, the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Hospital, ambulances grind to a halt at the institution&rsquo;s casualty door; sirens blazing as they drop patients in critical condition referred from other hospitals or accident victims who need urgent and specialised medical attention.Kisumu County Executive Committee Member of Health Dr Elizabeth Ogaja says that normally, between 60 to 100 patients are admitted to the facility daily.This means that the fate of about 2,600 patients who could have been admitted during the duration of the strike remains unknown.Sole patient ALSO READ: Nakuru nurses vow to continue with strikeThe Kakamega County Referral Hospital has also remained closed.But a sole patient continues to hope for the best. In the institution&rsquo;s Ward Three, James Odhiambo, admitted on November 6 2016 after breaking his leg along the Kisumu-Musanda Road on his way to work, remains the only occupant.The other nine beds around him are empty. Mr Odhiambo said before the strike was called, he would receive utmost attention from medics but in the last one month, no care has been offered.&ldquo;A nurse who comes to check on me every morning told me to buy drugs from a chemist outside the hospital. I do not have money and walking is hard,&rdquo; said Odhiambo.Junior staff who have been attending to the sick say all they can do is feed abandoned patients admitted before the strike.A majority have since been transferred to private hospitals by their kin. Across the country, nurses are turning away patients with ailments that require doctors&rsquo; attention: they can only dress wounds and give prescriptions for headaches and malaria.Dr James Obondi, a consultant surgeon in the lake side city warned that the ongoing crisis could spiral out of control as clinical officers on duty may be forced to handle ailments beyond their ability, resulting in grave mistakes. ALSO READ: Nurses take charge on week 4 of doctors strike in Kenya&ldquo;The government is toying with disaster. The question we should ask ourselves even as the government pretends that all is well is, who is handling cases that the nurses cannot handle? Who is conducting surgeries and postmortems?&rdquo; asked Dr Obondi.He said he was surprised to hear some clinical officers declare that they had resumed duty.&rdquo;The officers know they were giving Kenyans false hope because they know their limitations,&rdquo; said Dr Obondi.The last time the doctors&rsquo; union met Health Cabinet Secretary Cleophas Mailu and his team was last year on December 23 at the request of the Ministry of Labour, which played arbitrator.&ldquo;No headway was made. The proposals from the Ministry of Health are unrealistic,&rdquo; the Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Dentists Union Secretary General Dr Ouma Oluga, who was at the meeting said.&ldquo;The Ministry of Health wants the doctors to abandon the 2013 collective bargaining agreement and start negotiations for a fresh one. If they can renege on something agreed upon and worked on for almost four years, what assurances do we have that they will stick to any new document,&rdquo; Dr Oluga said.Kenya&rsquo;s health sector comprises the public and private sectors and faith-based organisations. Services are provided through a network of close to 5,000 facilities countrywide. The public sector accounts for more than 50 per cent of these.