MELBOURNE: A man deliberately drove into pedestrians, killing three and injuring at least 20 in the centre of Australia&#39;s second largest city Melbourne on Friday, but police said the lunch-time incident was not terror-related.Video footage from a witness showed a maroon coloured car driving around in circles in an intersection outside Flinders St railway station in the city&#39;s central business district, with the driver hanging his arm out the window.Two people approached the car, apparently trying to stop it. &quot;He was half hanging outside the car...he was just so reckless...he just didn&#39;t care,&quot; witness Laura Pollson told the Australian Broadcasting Corp.The man then drove up a pedestrian mall, deliberately ploughing into people, Victoria state police said. A shop video showed several people diving into a convenience store as the car sped along the footpath.&quot;A male deliberately drove into pedestrians in the Bourke Street mall, and we currently have three deceased and at least 20 injuries,&quot; Victoria Police acting commander Stuart Bateson told reporters. ALSO READ: TENNIS: Birthday girl Kerber unwraps perfect present&quot;We have the offender in custody. There is no further threat to the public at this stage. I can also confirm that this is not a CT (counter-terrorism) related incident.&quot;The incident was believed to be related to an overnight stabbing in the city, Bateson added.Photographs published by local media showed a stationary, badly damaged car with a nearby man in red underwear pinned to the ground by police.Witness Maria Kitjapanon told Melbourne&#39;s Age newspaper that the car was rammed by a police car and that police fired shots into the car before pulling the driver out.&quot;There were probably 10 police surrounding that guy&#39;s car, with guns drawn, and they fired into the car. Then they dragged someone out via the passengers side, then all 10 of them sat on top of him,&quot; she said.Police have locked down the city and suspended tram services.Melbourne is currently hosting the Australian Open tennis grand slam and is packed with thousands of extra tourists, only a few blocks from where the incident occurred. Police said the tennis tournament continued to operate as normal. ALSO READ: TENNIS: Birthday girl Kerber unwraps perfect presentAustralia, a staunch U.S. ally, has been on heightened alert for attacks by home-grown radicals since 2014 and authorities have said they have thwarted a number of plots. There have been several &quot;lone wolf&quot; assaults, including a 2014 cafe siege in Sydney that left two hostages and the gunman dead.&nbsp;