Kenya yesterday signed a five-year agreement with Denmark that will see players in the maritime and shipping sector get advanced training. The country could benefit more from other financial investments under this agreement.Denmark, which boasts a large maritime and shipping industry, will from next month offer training to Kenyan cadets.&nbsp; The training will be undertaken by Denmark&rsquo;s leading shipping company, Det Forenede Dampskibs-Selskab (DFDS). &ldquo;This five-year agreement will enable Kenya marine engineering and nautical science cadets acquire seagoing service of 12 months which is a mandatory requirement towards attainment of professional qualifications in the maritime industry either as marine engineering officers or navigating officers,&rdquo; Nancy Karigithu, the Permanent Secretary for maritime and shipping affairs, said.Ms Karigithu said the shipping industry had stagnated over the years, but attempts are were now being made to revive it. &ldquo;We have got one of the longest coastlines in Africa, and it&rsquo;s sad that we are not a power to reckon with when it comes to shipping and other maritime affairs in the continent. But with the setting up of the new department that I am heading, as well as partnerships with notable global players like Denmark, I am sure the situation will change,&rdquo; Karigithu said.The PS said that to grow the sector, a new law now requires that imported cargo to be insured by local underwriters. While putting her signature onto the agreement, the Danish Ambassador to Kenya, Ms Mette Knudsen, said she hoped Kenya would take advantage of the opportunities in shipping, given that the sector was not only important for commercial services, but also for military defences. ALSO READ: Flight MH370 families urge Mauritians to be on alert for debrisIndian Ocean trade&ldquo;Denmark, like Kenya, has a rich history in sea-faring. Our Scandinavian ancestors- Vikings &mdash; were great seafarers. The Kenyan coast pioneered dhow-making during the Indian Ocean trade with the West. This tradition should be uplifted to empower the modern shipping industry and reap its gains,&rdquo; said Ms Knudsen.DFDS is northern Europe&rsquo;s largest shipping and logistics company. The conglomerate, which was worth Euro1.6 billion (Sh177.6 billion) as of 2014, is also utilised by the military as it provides strategic sealifts for The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO).