There was drama in a village in Kakamega County when residents heckled a gubernatorial aspirant for gifting them a hearse.Residents of Shibuli village rejected the donation, accusing the Jubilee aspirant Mabel Muruli of &lsquo;wishing them death&rsquo;. The United Kingdom-based businesswoman could not address the crowd until she promised to donate an ambulance.Mr Cleophas Shimanyula, a local businessman who was present during the Mabel Muruli Football Tournament, kicked off the drama when he questioned Muruli&rsquo;s reasoning in donating the hearse.&ldquo;Mrs Muruli, please convert the hearse you have donated into an ambulance so that it can serve the living not the dead. Who wants to die?&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: The people and institutions to watch ahead of electionsHowever, Muruli defended herself saying the hearse will serve the needy, the same way an ambulance would.&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t criticise when somebody offers you a gift because eventually, people will seek transport for their dead. Nevertheless I will add another vehicle, an ambulance, so that the two vehicles can serve needy cases in Kakamega,&rdquo; she said.However, while a section of the crowd appeared satisfied, others still insisted that she should not give them a hearse.&ldquo;We are not rejecting gifts. After all, its is an election year and many people will offer us gifts. However, offering us a hearse is strange and same as wishing us death,&rdquo; said Kevin Alusiola who attended the football tournament as part of celebration to welcome the New Year.Ms Muruli was also forced to give Sh30,000 as prize money for the team that won the tournament after the crowds rejected the Sh15,000 she had given.&ldquo;I will be governor in 2017 whether you like it or not. Forget about my political party and everything else. Choose an individual. I am prepared to work for the people of Kakamega and bring development,&rdquo; she said.Muruli said she could not join any of the opposition parties because ODM has its deputy party leader Wycliffe Oparanya as candidate while ANC wanted to &lsquo;extort&rsquo; her. ALSO READ: Stop sowing seeds of discord, says Gideon in New Year message