Jubilee&rsquo;s organisational razzmatazz was in full display on Friday&rsquo;s smart card launch during which the Opposition was dismissed as clueless, rudderless and planless.Relying on young and popular artistes, and riding on a hyped party membership drive, Jubilee put up quite a show, which culminated in launch of the card with which party nominations will either be won or lost. The most memorable moment perhaps being Deputy William Ruto&rsquo;s dismissal of the National Super Alliance&rsquo;s (NASA) with choice adjectives of &ldquo;clueless, rudderless, leaderless, disorganised and planless.&rdquo;President Uhuru Kenyatta ignited a clarion dismissal of the Opposition with the catch-phrase &ldquo;shindwe&rdquo; every time he countered their accusations against his administration.Kenyans were also introduced to &ldquo;First Class&rdquo; Coastals by Kilifi North MP Gideon Mung&rsquo;aro. The ODM renegade MP said the group of Coast leaders he led to the event was the authentic Coastal people and those who missed out where Second Class Coastals. ALSO READ: NASA's fury as Joho, MPs arrested in gun drama For the first time also, a Member of Parliament from Luo Nyanza, James Rege (Karachuonyo) addressed a Jubilee event. Rege had slight difficulties speaking to the crowd in Kiswahili and switched to English.&ldquo;Jubilee is just like any other party,&rdquo; he rubbed it off the party zealots, and added: &ldquo;I want to plead with the DP not to forget the people of Nyanza and especially South Nyanza. Please do not look at us as just Luos,&rdquo; he said.Nairobi gubernatorial aspirants &mdash; Mike Sonko, Dennis Waweru, Johnson Sakaja and Bishop Margaret Wanjiru &mdash; put up a rare show of unity, which was hailed by various speakers.Dominant communityNairobi Women&rsquo;s Representative Rachel Shebesh suggested the dominant community in Nairobi give space to other communities.All the while, Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa &mdash; who was thrust into the Nairobi political storm, decorated as a saviour but later left to hang and dry &mdash; gazed pensively from his seat.Former chair of Commission on Implementation of the Constitution and now Kisii Senatorial aspirant Charles Nyachae introduced his new style of rocking silver beards at Kasarani. He proposed to stretch Jubilee&rsquo;s margin of win from 50 per cent plus one to 70 per cent plus one. ALSO READ: NASA's fury as Joho, MPs arrested in gun drama Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandagor confessed that his region had a &ldquo;sustainable programme&rdquo; of ensuring Jubilee remained in power for 100 years. He said the plan was anchored on free maternity and that it entailed increasing the average family holding from six children to eight. Meru Senator Kiraitu Murungi felt he needed to introduce himself afresh despite him being a household name in the country. Perhaps it has to do with intense heat he is feeling at home as his ex-pupil in law Peter Munya mercilessly pounds him from his backyard.&ldquo;My name is Kiraitu Murungi, the Governor of Meru from August this year,&rdquo; he introduced himself, spoke and wound up with a prophesy: &ldquo;There is a goat roaming around and bleating PNU but do not worry, it will be slaughtered in August.&rdquo;The belligerent Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria was in his element, lighting up the crowd with an avowal that they should never let &ldquo;those people&rdquo; lead the country. He compared top CORD leadership to a sterile bull without any seminal value.Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen extolled Jubilee for giving him a chance to serve as Senate Deputy Majority Leader. &ldquo;Kenya is covered by the skies and Jubilee,&rdquo; he said.The bitter rivalry between Kiambu Governor William Kabogo and Kabete MP Ferdinand Waititu played out, with supporters of either, cheering their preferred candidate while jeering the opponent.Waititu fired the first salvo at Kabogo over his previous remarks that Mt Kenya region will not automatically support the DP in the next polls.&ldquo;We want to assure you Ruto that we will vote for you in 2022. It is because of you that Uhuru won the 2013 polls and it will be because of you that Uhuru will win again,&rdquo; Waititu said. ALSO READ: Opposition unity doesn't guarantee victoryWhen Kabogo took the microphone, he hit out at the MP, recalling the controversy over Waititu&rsquo;s academic documents. He said only people with genuine papers should be elected.