There is a category of Kenyans who are used to having Government documents &ndash; identity cards, passports, driving licences &ndash; delivered.And if for any reason delivery is not possible, they will present themselves at the relevant offices with the assurance that they will go straight to the front of the queueYou know the type, politicians, senior civil servants and their families, career diplomats, corporate one per-centers, etcetera. It is these folk I am most worried about as the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) carries out this final round of voter registration in a series of fits and starts.First of all, while the IEBC website has very good information on how to register, it does not tell you where to register.Now of course the list of gazetted registration centres is available elsewhere on the Internet, but I imagine the official website would be the first port of call for many, especially those who are new to the whole voter registration thing. Last week, I visited three centres in the Kuwinda area. ALSO READ: Time to review Somalia mission strategyAt the first one, the registration clerks were missing in action (MIA). At the second one, I found a rickety wooden table, stationed next to a wall on which a few IEBC posters had been haphazardly pinned.The gusty wind blew them this way and that, just like the pitiful Kenyan voter who is constantly pulled in two different directions by politicians whose core business is blowing hot air. It was 11am on a Monday morning.A child told me that the officials would probably show up at around 2pm. At my third stop, I finally had some success.I wasn&rsquo;t looking to register, rather to confirm that my name was in the system. I handed over my identification card and soon after worry lines appeared high on the clerk&rsquo;s forehead.She couldn&rsquo;t find my name on the roll. After a few tense moments, and as the only other person in the queue began to shift his weight from one foot to the next, she smiled. &ldquo;Ah, you registered with your passport!&rdquo;She seemed more excited than I was that my name would still be called up yonder come Election Day, 2017. But there was a certain naivet&eacute; about her that did not inspire confidence.The worry lines appeared again when I told her my passport had since expired. &ldquo;Well, I think you can still show up with your ID,&rdquo; she said, sounding as uncertain as I felt. ALSO READ: Time to review Somalia mission strategyMy troubles did not end there because I wanted to switch polling stations and for that honour she directed me to a Government office at Wilson Airport. I saw more tediousness ahead and thought to myself, for what?On August 8, 2017, many of us will spend hours in long queues in the noble bid to exercise our civic duty and - ostensibly &ndash; to elect the next batch of Kenyan leaders.But let&rsquo;s face it, whichever side of the political divide you find yourself on, those are likely to be four or five hours of your life that you will never get back.Why? Because sometimes the system wants who it wants, never mind the rights and expectations of the voting public.Whichever side wins, and whether or not the election is deemed to be free and fair, the other side (and its supporters) will feel cheated.Tensions are already simmering, and we still have half a year to get through before we cast our ballots.This election is going to be tightly contested. I say this because even those types who are used to the Government coming to them are out here looking to become bona fide members of the voting public.The battle lines have been drawn and whoever comes out in front at the end of the registration process - rightly or wrongly -will likely go on to win the vote. Rather than despair, this is all the more reason why we must exercise our constitutional right to register and when the time comes, to vote. ALSO READ: East African states in talks to expand one-area mobile networkThe opportunity to choose new leaders only comes every fifth year and if nothing else we must make the effort to participate in the process. To stand up and be counted. After Brexit, Trump, Ghana and Gambia, surely it must be clear to all that the winds of change are blowing across the globe. It might not come today or tomorrow, but it will come.For the swing voters, those who believe that our choices (and their consequences) are limited to the devil on one hand, and the deep blue sea on the other, consider this: This Government has been reckless with our lives and the lives of our children.Forget everything else and consider for a moment the stupendous amount of debt that is saddling each and every citizen, newborns included; debt that for the most part, our parenting authority has either been unwilling or unable to account for.This Government has quite literally mortgaged our future with reckless disregard for the generations to come.As a voter, you have one critical chance to hold your elected leaders accountable, and it only comes around every fifth year. Make it count.