Let&rsquo;s take a look at the state of the nation. There is a lot to say on that; first to the latest madness in town, the premature political campaigns that have cleverly been disguised as voter mobilisation rallies.I insist these are political campaigns because voter registration did not just start on February 16th. The law allows for continuous registration of voters, which means that you could easily have registered in December or August last year, without any prompting from anyone.If these political leaders really wanted us to register as voters in large numbers as they like to say, did they need to wait for a timetable from the IEBC? I digress here, but the reason why these rallies now seem so heartless or even callous, is because they have clouded some of the most pressing issues in the country.Two million Kenyans are currently facing starvation but the political leaders are arguing about whose base has registered the most number of voters. In fact, the President is on record as having urged the IEBC to follow pastoralists in the arid areas, wherever they go to make sure they are registered. Hopefully, there is someone else following them with food not just BVR kits. ALSO READ: Small parties in ingenious plan to beat the big boysIt is bad enough that people would be starving in Kenya more than 50 years after independence. Never mind that just a few weeks ago, we were assured that we had 21 million bags of maize that would be enough for all Kenyans for the next few months.Now we, who pay taxes, at rates that are among the highest in the world, are being asked to go into our pockets, again!Don&#39;t get me wrong, we have a moral duty to support our brothers and sisters who have nothing to eat, but should it be an annual emergency? Didn&#39;t anyone see this coming?Secondly, doctors have been on strike for close to 2 months now, with the nurses threatening to go back on the streets. Again that is not important enough. Is it because these medics don&rsquo;t have enough votes or is it because no one cares anymore that public hospitals are now ghost towns?Just days ago, our troops in Somalia came under yet another attack, with limited information from our own Government on the exact details of the incident that has left yet more families without their breadwinners.Again, there is no pause to mourn the fallen heroes or give candid answers to the county.Have we become such an insensitive society that we no longer care about the things that are truly important? ALSO READ: Famine-hit families to get food aidWhy do we allow our politicians to simply see us as statistics and voting machines?It matters little which party you support but for as long as you allow the party or its leaders&nbsp;to treat you as a vote rather than a human being, there is no real value in casting your ballot.That&rsquo;s my take.@YvonneOkwara