President Uhuru Kenyatta has passionately appealed to Jubilee aspirants to stop infighting since it may endanger the party&#39;s chances of winning the August General Election.Addressing thousands of aspirants at Kasarani yesterday during the launch of Jubilee Party smart membership card, Uhuru said infighting will only hand their opponents victory. He urged hopefuls who lose in party nominations to rally behind the winners, saying a win for a Jubilee candidate will be a win for all party members.He promised losers appointment into government positions. ALSO READ: NASA's fury as Joho, MPs arrested in gun drama There has been disquiet in the party over the appointment of members of the presidential national campaign team, creating perception of preferred candidates. The passage of a law barring party hopping has also occasioned anxiety in major political parties, with aspirants expressing fears of being rigged out through shambolic party nominations.Other speakers urged the aspirants to rally their supporters to register as voters when a new round of voter registration kicks off on Monday.The President said the August 8 election will be won in the next 30 days when the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) lists new voters.&quot;Let us unite, go out and sell the Jubilee manifesto and register as members and voters. If we do so, the win will be for all of us,&quot; said the President.IEBC is targeting at least six million new voters in the exercise that will run until February 15, 2017.&quot;Today, we don&#39;t have president, governor, senator, MPs and MCAs. We all are Jubilee members. Let&#39;s know that when we leave here to list members, they are the ones who will tell us who will be the President, Senator, MP, Governor and MP. Jubilee will hold free and fair nominations. So I ask you that in the one month, let it be who will list the highest number of voters,&quot; said Uhuru. ALSO READ: UoN VC cautions students and staff to keep off party politicsThe President announced that the party will reward the ward, constituency and county that will list the highest number of voters in the registration drive.To allay fears of the party had a line-up of preferred candidates, Deputy President William Ruto announced that all Jubilee aspirants are part of Uhuru&#39;s campaign team.&quot;We are one and we are equal in the party. I want to assure you that under the leadership of Uhuru, nominations will be free and fair. Asking for credible nominations by aspirants is not a favour but a right,&quot; said Ruto.