A fresh row over the party primaries has hit ODM, with an MP demanding the resignation of party chairman John Mbadi.Nyatike MP Omondi Anyanga said if Mr Mbadi did not resign, party leader Raila Odinga should fire him and replace him with a competent chairman who would not undermine the ideals of the party. Mr Anyanga accused Mbadi of working with Raila&#39;s political rivals to wreck the party from within. He claimed the Gwassi MP had usurped the role of the ODM National Elections Board and was demanding bribes from aspirants.But Mbadi fired back, saying he would not be distracted.&quot;I did not become chairman of ODM to auction the party. There is no ticket that will be auctioned... Mbadi cannot be bought,&quot; he said. &quot;As ODM chairman, my role is to rally more people to support the party, not send them away. We will only succeed if there is transparency and fairness in the way we nominate aspirants,&quot; he said. ALSO READ: Raila Odinga: For peace, polls must be fairSpeaking in Uriri constituency in Migori, Mbadi said many ardent ODM supporters, including Migori Governor Okoth Obado, quit the party in 2013 because of unfair nomination practices and that he was determined to ensure this year&#39;s primaries were above board.&quot;This time, things will be done differently. The notion peddled by some leaders that they own ODM and they contribute to the party is neither here nor there. All candidates have an equal chance and there will be no room for shortcuts,&quot; said Mbadi.VEILED THREATSAnyanga claimed Mbadi had been issuing veiled threats to sitting MPs that they would be locked out of the party primaries scheduled for February if they didn&#39;t meet his conditions.The deadline for applications for those seeking ODM tickets in next year&#39;s General Election lapsed on Saturday but has since been extended by 10 days.&quot;Mr Mbadi is sowing seeds of discord in the party yet he was not even elected. He was handpicked to lead the party. And clearly, this will bungle the primaries as happened in 2013. This will work in Jubilee&#39;s favour and deny Raila the presidency,&quot; said Anyanga.In the run-up to the 2013 polls, ODM primaries ended in acrimony in several wards, constituencies and counties, compelling many aspirants to seek tickets in other parties. In Nyanza, several MPs and a governor were elected on other party tickets. ALSO READ: I am in ODM to stay, politician Oduol saysYesterday, Anyanga claimed Mbadi&#39;s removal from the ODM chairmanship would give aspirants a level playing ground.He said in several constituencies, Mbadi was openly siding with some aspirants. He also questioned why MPs holding party positions and who would be seeking re-election were reluctant to quit from those positions.&quot;We will not allow anyone to bend party rules in their favour. They were supposed to quit in December,&quot; said Anyanga.