Clan elders in Wajir are set to pick aspirants for elective positions through negotiated democracy but political intrigues are holding back the process. Suspicion and mistrust is delaying an outcome of months of negotiations as anxiety persists ahead of the August poll. Wajir County is home to the Degodia, the Ajuraan and the Ogaden, which are the dominant clans. But of interest are the camps that have emerged within Ajuraan where elders face a major political dilemma. There is a strong push to have an Ajuraan go for Senate or the deputy governor&#39;s slot but the clan is split on this. During the recently concluded Ajuraan Annual General Meeting at the ICT Hall in Wajir from December 24 to December 25, opinion was, however, divided on this. The first camp comprises Ahmed Sheikh Abdullahi and Ibrahim Abdi Saney, former Wajir North MP Addullahi Ibrahim Ali, popularly known as Kabretta and Mr Ahmed Mohamed. The second camp has current deputy governor Abdihafidh Yarow and Mr Mohamed Abikar, Mr Adan Omar Enow, Mr Fankey Ahmed Salat and Mr Ali Starehe. The battle between the titans is already shaping up. Abdikader Bilow, an elder, said they are keen on presenting a winning team. &quot;We are keen on reaching a common ground soon. There may be different opinions for now but at the end we will agree in way forward,&quot; he said. Kabreta has already been controversially endorsed by the Ajuraan to contest the Senate but his endorsement has been opposed in some quarters. Ahmed Sheikh Abdullahi is the chairman of the Ajuraan Consultative Council. Even though he ensured the Ajuraan voted as a block for Jubilee in 2013, he faces backlash over claims he is backing Kabreta contrary to expectation he would be non-partisan. Yarow has employed many Ajuraan in the county government, but his critics claim when he was the CEC for Energy, no Ajuraan company was awarded tenders or contracts. Abikar, the chairman of Wajir Justice Forum claims to be non-aligned and wants the Ajuraan to contest the Senate and Deputy Governor&#39;s seats, but his critics are unhappy with his political links with a local sitting MP. Mr Mohamed Hussein Gabow, who was MP for Wajir North constituency from 2007 to 2013 has since shifted to concentrate on his senatorial bid for Marsabit County. Mr Ibrahim Abdi Saney, the current MP for Wajir North constituency is credited with the creation of more locations in the constituency and will be banking on his record. There are other notable heavyweights such as Mr Ibrahim Sheikh. Even though he contested and lost the Wajir West constituency seat in 2013, he is vocal on Ajuraan issues. He has enjoys massive support in Wajir West and Wajir North constituencies.&quot;Even though Ibrahim Sheikh hasn&#39;t identified with any grouping, there is a scramble for him from both camps. He is a political student of Kabretta, and the people know his inclination towards the Fai sub-clan of the Degodia, from where his mother originates,&quot; said Mohamed Ali Hassan, an observer privy to the developments. Both camps concur he would have an edge for the post of Deputy Governor or Senator, but he remains noncommittal and remains keen on Wajir West constituency affairs. The Aljuraan are believed to be the kingmakers since the governorship, currently held by Ahmed Mohamed Abdullahi, is a preserve of the Degodia.