First, let me state why I believe am suited for the position of Chairperson of the African Union Commission (AUC). I am an African with impeccable Pan African credentials.I bring on board competencies and experience that will make it possible to secure Africa&rsquo;s Agenda 2063. I have shown my dedication and capability during the continent&rsquo;s most difficult times, one clear example is in search for peace and stability. My independent international credibility and professionalism have been tried and tested. I will leverage on my rich experience and contacts across the globe to lobby for positions; partnerships and pacts as well as advocate for a stronger and respected Africa in the global arena.My conviction that Africa is destined to realise its full potential is informed by our founding forefathers&rsquo; foresight reflected in the African Proverb; &ldquo;If you want to go fast, go alone but if you want to go far &ndash; go together&rdquo;.Africa is currently undergoing exceptional times. For example, we have, in recent years, witnessed the tenacity, drive, grit and determination of Africa&rsquo;s youth. ALSO READ: Dialogue on democracy in Africa key for all citizensOur youth are taking full advantage of advances in information technology and the digital age to carve out innovative and transposable solutions to lift communities out of vulnerability and extreme want.Africa&rsquo;s growing population is the youngest in the world. It is better educated than previous generations and it will define the future of our continent. These are the times to reap on the youth dividend.The promise of our continent has to be secured through an all-inclusive approach that encompasses consultation, cooperation, coordination for the successful implementation of Agenda 2063. It is also important that we concretise and adopt mechanisms to ensure that available resources are utilised to generate optimum results.In finding a linkage between Agenda 2063 and the Sustainable Development Goals 2030, my vision envisages an environment where every African citizen enjoys a life of dignity free from environmental harm, illiteracy, poverty, diseases and unemployment, in order to promote social justice and the realisation of their potential.I am optimistic that together we can create a continent that not only embodies our pride and dignity, but is also a hub for peace and stability. This vision will be enabled by my conviction to their achievements as is informed by the significant reduction in armed conflicts and internal strife. My vision is that of an African Union Commission that will utilise and build on the current momentum to secure Africa&rsquo;s rightful place in the community of nations. In order to fulfil this objective, I envision a continent united in both values and outlook, and whose transformation is decisive and inclusive.I pledge to do my part and serve each member state with loyalty and honesty according to their individual national needs, passion, compassion, selfless determination, alacrity and tenacity. I have an elaborate road map for achieving my vision.This starts by being cognisant of the fact that Africa needs a common ground in tackling the many challenges; both traditional and emerging. Africa cannot continue to allow the continent to be divided along linguistic grounds, regional blocs or levels of economic development. ALSO READ: United States of Africa? Kenya lobbies for adoption of border-less continentAfrica must move away from the realities of poverty, armed conflict, hunger, disease prevalence, illiteracy, continued natural resource exploitation and domination by foreign interests.I will therefore undertake to strengthen and augment the execution of the First Ten Year Implementation Plan of Agenda 2063.The successful delivery of the First Ten Year Implementation Plan 2014 &ndash; 2023 is fundamental to reinforce the confidence of our people in our capacity to manage Africa&rsquo;s cultural endowments, diversity and natural resources. As the Chairperson of the Commission, I will provide leadership by consolidating these gains to realize Africa&rsquo;s full potential.Granted the opportunity to serve Africa, my priorities will include but not limited to: securing peace and security for all member states, development of inter-connectivity through infrastructure development, increasing intra-Africa trade, improved integration through strengthening of regional blocks and creating inter-dependence linkages, unleashing the potential of Africa&rsquo;s women and youth, increased social investment to ensure inclusive growth in education, health, wealth and employment creation, promoting agriculture as the mainstay of economic growth and main basis for industrialisation and last but not least, developing and promoting shared African values as per Agenda 2063. I am ready for Africa.