Kanu is planning to reclaim northern Kenya, a former political stronghold it &lsquo;lost&rsquo; after the 2007 General Election.The party which did not field candidates in the region during the 2013 elections, is now keen to give rivals a run for their money. The strategy involves picking key personalities in Isiolo, Marsabit and Samburu to counter opponents vying on Jubilee Party (JP) and CORD tickets.In Isiolo, the party has identified Nairobi businessman Hussein Golicha who will battle it out for governorship with incumbent Godana Doyo and Tana and Athi River Development Authority chairman Abdul Bahari (JP).Local Kanu officials Saadia Abakula (chairperson) and Abdullahi Halkano (secretary) said Mr Golicha, who comes from Doyo&rsquo;s clan will vie for the seat. ALSO READ: Fasten your seat belts, the election year is hereThe officials said the party would field candidates in all elective posts. The businessman started making in roads in Isiolo in 2015 after he declared his candidature. His political bid got a boost after the Doyo clan endorsed him recently.Kanu national organising secretary Abdulrahman Bafadhil said Golicha would get an automatic ticket.Visiting branch offices&ldquo;The party led by our national chairman (Gideon Moi, Baringo Senator) is keen to re-enter its former political strongholds and capture seats in the 2017 General Elections,&rdquo; said Mr Bafadhil.He said party officials have been visiting branch offices as part of efforts to consolidate support for Kanu and protect its assets.&ldquo;We were in Isiolo with Salat (Kanu secretary general Nick Salat) when we heard our property that hosts the branch headquarters had been grabbed. We filed an injunction and the case is still-ongoing,&rdquo; he added.In Marsabit governor race the party is seeking to front a US based consultant Ummuro Adano. Kanu wants to reach out to Mr Adano through former East African Legislative Assembly member, Sarah Godana. ALSO READ: Mark Too&rsquo;s last journey unites leaders across political divideIn Samburu, the party has identified former Teachers Service Commission secretary Gabriel Lengoiboni and former Samburu West MP Peter Lenges for governorship. Bafadhil also revealed that the party would field former Garissa Mayor Siyat Osman to run against Garissa Township MP Aden Duale. In Wajir governor race Kanu has picked a US based professor only identified as Warsame and is still seeking candidates for Mandera.