&nbsp; Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery. (Photo: Courtesy) Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery has gazetted 11 board members of the Private Security Regulatory Authority. The team that will among others regulate the private security sector will serve for a three years period effective, February 3, 2017. The membership include the Principal Secretaries from State Department of Interior, national Treasury and State Department of labour. Others include Eric Okeyo representing private security industry association. Okeyo also doubles as the chairman of the Kenya Security Industry Association (KSIA), the largest security association in Kenya and provides a central organization for liaison with government, police, emergency services and other organisations. Okeyo was elected was elected KSIA chairman unopposed during the association&rsquo;s annual general meeting held in Nairobi last month. &ldquo;In exercise of the powers conferred by section 11 (1) (b) of the private Security Regulation Act, the cabinet Secretary for Interior and Co-ordination of National Government appoints the following persons as members of the Private Security Regulatory Authority Board for a period of three years with effect from February 3, 2017,&rdquo;Nkaissery said. Others include Rosemary Kuraru representing the National Police Service, Javanson Arithi representing the National Intelligence Service (NIS) and Moses Kaniaru from the private security industry association. Secretary General of the National Private Security Worker&rsquo;s Union Isaac Andabwa is also a board member. Other board members include Joash Soita, Bernard Wanjohi&nbsp; Muriuki and Silvenus Sewe representing national private security workers union, residents association and Kenya private Sector Alliance respectively. The private security regulation Authority Act provides for a framework for cooperation between the private security companies and the national security organs. The authority is mandated to set standards, create an enforcing mechanism, improve personnel welfare and offer redress from unscrupulous players. President Kenyatta appointed Amos Sipoi Ntimama to serve as the chairman for a three year period effective from November 25, 2016. While appointing Sipoi, President Kenyatta revoked prior appointment of Former National Intelligence Service Director General Michael Gichangi as the chairman. Gichangi was appointed on October 2, 2014, after resigning from the NIS following multiple security lapses. Further, the authority will ensure all security firms are registered, have standard personnel training and proper remuneration for all private security guards. The law also provide for guidelines for foreign ownership and control of businesses operating as security service providers.