Tunisia&rsquo;s prime minister yesterday rejected criticism that his country had been slow to take back failed asylum seekers from Europe. This includes Berlin Christmas market attacker Anis Amri. Youssef Chahed is in Germany for talks with Chancellor Angela Merkel. Mr Chahed also rejected the idea of Tunisia setting up its own asylum centres to ease the burden on Europe. Shortcomings in the system were exposed in December by the failure to deport Tunisian Islamic State supporter Amri, who was on a watch list and had been denied asylum six months before he killed 12 people by driving a truck through the market. In an interview in Bild, Chahed said cooperation with Germany on asylum seekers was functioning well. ALSO READ: Germany warms up to Kenya in Sh3b plan &ldquo;The biggest problem for Europe is refugees who go from Libya to Italy,&rdquo; he said, adding German authorities needed to provide the correct paperwork to be able to send back failed asylum seekers to Tunisia. It was largely a delay in getting the right documents, including identity papers, that prevented Amri from being repatriated. He was shot dead by Italian police in Milan on December 23. &ldquo;Illegal immigrants who use false papers sometimes make things difficult and prolong the process,&rdquo; he said. Asked about the possibility of Tunisia building refugee centres with European help, Chahed said: &ldquo;Tunisia is a very young democracy, I don&rsquo;t think that it can function or that we have capacity to create refugee camps.&rdquo; He added that the main focus should be finding a solution with Libya. Merkel has been weakened by her open-door migrant policy which allowed more than a million refugees into Germany in the last two years. She is now trying to show voters she is beefing up security and cracking down on illegal migrants before a national election due in September. Merkel needs the cooperation of countries like Tunisia to speed up deportations. She also plans to give police greater powers to detain rejected asylum seekers seen as a terrorist threat and to set up &lsquo;federal departure centres&rsquo; near airports to house rejected applicants ahead of their deportation. &mdash; Reuters ALSO READ: BUNDESLIGA: Dortmund barbs fuelled fan attacks