NAIROBI, KENYA: Sophos has entered into an agreement to acquire Invincea, a provider of next-generation malware protection. Invincea&rsquo;s endpoint security portfolio is designed to detect and prevent unknown malware and sophisticated attacks via its patented deep learning neural-network algorithms. It has been consistently ranked as among the best performing machine learning, signature-less next-generation endpoint technologies in third-party testing and rated highly both for high detection and low false-positive rates. &ldquo;By adding Invincea to our portfolio, sophos is executing on its vision to assemble the most powerful technologies to provide the very best, cutting-edge defenses for our customers,&rdquo; commented Kris Hagerman, chief executive officer at Sophos. &ldquo;Invincea is leading the market in machine learning-based threat detection with the combination of superior detection rates and minimal false positives. Invincea will strengthen Sophos&rsquo; leading next-gen endpoint protection with complementary predictive defenses that we believe will become increasingly important to the future of endpoint protection and allow us to take full advantage of this significant new growth opportunity. We are proud to welcome the Invincea team to Sophos and look forward to introducing the benefits of this advanced technology to our customers and partners worldwide.&rdquo; The Invincea machine learning malware detection and prevention technology will be fully integrated into the Sophos endpoint protection portfolio, further strengthening Sophos&rsquo; leadership in this fast-growing market. &ldquo;We started Invincea with the vision of using non-signature based technologies, including machine learning, in innovative ways to protect organizations against the most advanced forms of cyber-attack,&rdquo; commented Anup Ghosh, founder and chief executive officer at Invincea. &ldquo;X by Invincea represents a new generation in antivirus technology based on deep learning and behavioral monitoring. Joining forces with Sophos presents the perfect opportunity to take our proven, advanced technology to a global audience and make it part of a comprehensive synchronized security system. Sophos is leading the industry in adopting and bringing to market this disruptive new vision for complete, advanced, and integrated security, and we are delighted to join the team and help make it happen.&rdquo; Norm Laudermilch, chief operating officer and head of product development at Invincea added, &ldquo;Invincea set out to disrupt the traditional approach to antivirus, and even now no single technology is enough to fully protect customers. I share the Sophos vision for bringing together a powerful ensemble of next-gen technologies to dramatically improve the overall effectiveness of endpoint protection. Along with our world-class technical team at Invincea, I&rsquo;m looking forward to joining Sophos and helping deliver on this ambitious and exciting vision.&rdquo;