ODM party leader Raila Odinga has assured all aspirants that the party will hold free and fair nominations. Speaking to the media in Kisii yesterday after a closed-door-meeting with all ODM aspirants, Mr Raila assured that no candidate would be discriminated against. &quot;We are at a crucial stage in the election process and we are ready to ventilate on all issues. We want all party members to remain united even after the nominations,&quot; he said. He said Kisii was an ODM zone and he would not want to see a situation where other parties win more elective seats. &quot;We must have majority seats both at the county assembly and Parliament,&quot; he said. A source who attended the meeting told The Standard that some aspirants raised concerns on the upcoming party primaries, accusing Kisii Governor James Ongwae and nominated Senator Janet Ongera of supporting some candidates. ALSO READ: Ababu Namwamba fails to reveal Labour Party plans But Mr Ongwae shot back saying that was mere propaganda being peddled by some aspirants. &nbsp;proper coordination Other aspirants complained that the party lacked proper coordination in the county. The defection of ODM branch chairman Senator Chris Obure and Organising Secretary Joash Maangi to Jubilee Party sent jitters among aspirants in the region. Some candidates expressed fear that the party could resort to boardroom democracy to pick candidates as was the case in 2013. Raila said they were unhappy with the way the presidential directive on issuance of identification cards was being carried out. He explained that the exercise seemed to be selective. ALSO READ: NASA will change Kenya, says Raila Odinga &quot;The Government should be serious on this matter. There are several youths who are yet to get this noble document. This is a programme that should have been rolled out without any bias,&quot; he said. The former premier noted that Kisii and Nyamira counties were still&nbsp; behind in terms of voter registration. Ongwae said they had agreed to move forward as a team despite the &#39;normal&#39; political issues.