Deputy President William Ruto has asked coastal residents to support Jubilee&rsquo;s re-election based on its development track record. Ruto has told coastal residents to back Jubilee since the Opposition lacks focus for the region&rsquo;s and the country&rsquo;s development. &nbsp;Speaking during a public rally at Ukunda Showground in Kwale County during his second day tour at the Coast region on voter registration drive, the Deputy President said it was only Jubilee that had the focus on unity and development in the country. &nbsp;&ldquo;Jubilee has initiated various development projects in the field of health, energy, education, water, infrastructure and lands among other sectors barely four years in power while those in Opposition who have been in government for more than 30 years and in senior positions have nothing in terms of development for this region,&rdquo; said Ruto. National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale, Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko, Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya, his deputy Fatuma Achani, MPs Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga), Gonzi Rai (Kinango), Gideon Mungaro (Kilifi North) and Mustapha Idd (Kilifi South) accompanied the William Ruto in his trip at the Coast. Ruto who also addressed a public rally in Likoni grounds said Kenyans should assess leaders based on their development track records so as to make informed decisions during the August elections. ALSO READ: Kidero, Mueke enjoy as Jubilee aspirants fight over party ticket &ldquo;Kenyans should evaluate the performance of leaders so as to differentiate between those who are committed to development and those bent on propaganda and rhetoric. This will enable them elect leaders who can take this country to the next level in terms of development,&rdquo; said Ruto. &nbsp;Majority leader Aden Duale said Opposition leaders were now in a panicking after realizing that residents in Jubilee strongholds were turning out in large numbers to register as voters so as to participate in August elections. &ldquo;Opposition leader Raila Odinga had said the contest between Cord and Jubilee will be known after the registration of voters is over. But now that he has realized voters in Jubilee areas are turning out in large numbers, he is now claiming National Intelligence Service is enlisting foreigners as voters ahead of August elections,&rdquo; said Duale. MPs from the region who have ditched Opposition parties to join Jubilee said they have done so because the Opposition lacks focus.