A former Cabinet secretary is behind the manipulation of the electoral commission database, Opposition chief Raila Odinga has claimed. Mr Raila claimed he had information that places a senior Jubilee henchman at the centre of it all, adding that this was the reason Jubilee strongholds were leading in voter registration. &quot;The doctoring exercise is being carried out in the home of a senior Government official and the office of a former Cabinet secretary,&quot; he alleged. Yesterday, Raila visited a polling station at Lavington Primary School in Nairobi and found about 19 instances of people registered using the same number. &quot;We have unearthed serious anomalies in the on-going voter registration that brings into question the integrity of the register being compiled and the figures being released by IEBC (Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission),&quot; he said. &quot;... Numbers that do not qualify as identity card numbers have been used to register voters in parts of the country (to give Jubilee undue advantage).&quot; ALSO READ: President Uhuru declares Makonde 43rd tribe of Kenya The former premier claimed that the cell where one is expected to key in an identity card number or passport number was designed in such a way that it could accept any amount of digits instead of eight for an ID or seven for a passport. Raila claimed the software was manipulated by former IEBC employees who are aligned to Jubilee to ensure the ruling party&#39;s strongholds registered more voters. Eight people were registered with identification document number two, he said. &quot;The manipulation was done to ensure that single-digit numbers... can be used to register foreigners or even people without IDs.&quot; But in a quick rejoinder, IEBC said it was aware that some Kenyans had ID numbers such as 00000002 or 00000023, which may appear as single or double digits. Raila claimed the names that had fake ID numbers were in the IEBC register to create room for ballot stuffing during elections. &quot;The IEBC must come clean on this matter. These developments mean the audit and cleaning of the register is mandatory and must be extremely thorough,&quot; he said. ALSO READ: IEBC probes claims of aspirants bribing voters But IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati said some of the numbers highlighted by Raila were part of the 128,926 ID card numbers that were subject to an ongoing clean-up. &quot;For the avoidance of doubt, most of these numbers were keyed into the system during the 2012 registration drive and do not relate to the current mass voter registration campaign. This is a historical issue and should not be used to discredit the ongoing registration drive,&quot; he said. He said duplication of ID card numbers could&nbsp; be attributed to data entry errors at the time of registration, attempts by individuals to register more than once or individuals sharing one ID card. &quot;The ID number will now be part of the unique identifiers in addition to the biometrics captured at registration. The commission wishes to assure that the process of cleaning up the register is in good hands. There should be no cause for alarm and Kenyans must focus on registering as voters,&quot; Mr Chebukati added.