Even as families of the 14 Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) soldiers killed at Kulbiyow camp laid them to rest, the central cry to the State was &#39;please do not forget us&#39;. An unknown number of soldiers died during an attack by the Al Shabaab on the camp last Friday. The burials took place in Isiolo, Kilifi, Mombasa, Kericho, Nakuru and Kwale counties. Families eulogised their loved ones as heroes who loved the country so much, they paid the ultimate price to defend it. In Isiolo, two soldiers who died in the attack were buried at Tullu Roba Estate Muslim Cemetery in Isiolo town yesterday. The two, Private Ido Kuno Ido and Corporal Abdalla Aziz were laid to rest in an emotional send off attended by family, friends and local leaders. Isiolo County Executive Committee for Lands Ahmed Shone who is a family member and MP Tiyah Galgalo accompanied the bodies to Isiolo town. Also present at the Isiolo Airport to receive the bodies was Tana and Athi Rivers Development Authority chairman Abdul Bahari. Ido, 28 who completed his secondary education at Garba-Tula High in 2006 where he was renowned poet, was based at Mariakani base. He joined the force two years later and has left behind a widow and two children. Families of the heart-broken Aziz who hail from Isiolo but also reside in Maralal town in Samburu and Nairobi were also present to receive the body of their 23-year-old son. ALSO READ: Slain KDF soldier missed last year's deadly attack by a whisker According to the wife, Khadija Dahir, Aziz had been identified positively by his brother Feisal in Nairobi. &quot;His colleague called us immediately and his brother travelled to Nairobi and has confirmed the sad news,&quot; Mrs Dahir said. Two other bodies including that of Mohammed Konchora, 23 was taken to Korbesa in Merti District (Isiolo) and Umurio&#39;s Marsabit&#39;s North Horr. In Mombasa, hundreds of mourners who including a legislator, senior military officials attended the burial of Corporal Moses Mwakio, an armorer with KDF. Rajab Willam Baya and Mohamed Kalume who were killed in the raid were also buried in Kaloleni in Kilifi and Utange in Mombasa, respectively. Mwakio was buried with full military honours with men and women from his unit, the 15th Kenya Rifles present. In his message of condolences to the family, Kenya Army Commander Lt General Robert Kibochi described Mwakio as an industrious soldier. Some of the bereaved families rallied the State to withdraw the remaining KDF soldiers from Somalia to avoid more needless deaths.