&nbsp; Three suspected thugs were Wednesday morning shot dead by police in a botched robbery in Parklands area, Nairobi. The three were gunned down by police while in a Toyota Voxy that they had stolen. Witnesses and police said the shooting happened near Avenue Hospital and a Glock pistol with eight bullets were found on them. Head of Special Crimes Prevention Unit Noah Katumo said the men were planning a robbery when they were confronted. &ldquo;Our officers had been trailing them after they stole the car up to the point they planned to stage a robbery. We did not want them to go ahead with their mission,&rdquo; said Katumo. ALSO READ: 23-year-old woman charged with kidnapping The incident happened at about 9.30am as many people were reporting to work. The shooting saw many motorists and pedestrians scamper for their safety. This brings to close to ten, the number of suspects killed in Nairobi in two days. Others were killed in Kayole and Shauri Moyo Tuesday. Four suspects were Monday night shot dead in Kayole and a stolen car, gun and handcuff recovered from them. The four are said to have robbed a motorist of his car and beat him up in the process before throwing him off a moving car. The robbery took place in Dandora earlier in the day before the car was traced to Kayole where a shooting ensued. Police say they also recovered two sets of fake number plates from the slain men. According to Nairobi police boss Japheth Koome, the men had robbed the motorist of his car and beat him up in the process. ALSO READ: Kidero and Kenneth differ on city agenda &ldquo;The vehicle was later spotted in Kayole where the men were all shot after they ignored orders from police to surrender,&rdquo; said Koome. He added the men were linked to a number of robberies in the area on Sunday. The bodies were taken to the mortuary. Another suspect was killed in Shauri Moyo area and a gun found on him. Police say the man popularly known as Jackie was wanted over a number of robbery claims in the area. He was trailed to a hideout along Kericho Road after a botched robbery there and killed before the body was moved to the mortuary. On Tuesday night a suspect was lynched by a mob in a botched robbery in Buruburu area, Nairobi. The suspect is said to have been in the company of three others and were attacking and robbing pedestrians when an alarm was raised.&nbsp;