Opposition leaders on Saturday&nbsp;reiterated that they are united in their quest to send Jubilee home. Speaking in Serem, Vihiga County during the burial of Josephine Kageha, mother to Senator George Khaniri, Opposition leader Raila Odinga said that National Super Alliance comprises a team that is firm and capable of beating Jubilee in August polls. The former premier said that NASA cannot be defeated by Jubilee and told President Uhuru and his deputy William Ruto to be prepared to exit State House. &ldquo;NASA team is serious and people should not underrate it. I am optimistic NASA team will beat Jubilee,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said. Raila further said that in the forthcoming polls, Kenyans will be united and will put their votes in one basket because their common enemy is Jubilee because it has done little to end the high cost of living and corruption. &ldquo;This time Kenyans will vote as one because they have one enemy, which is Jubilee. Our unity is important and it will contribute greatly to our course,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said. Raila also urged residents to register as voters before the registration drive ends on Tuesday, stating that their win can only be attained through numbers. ALSO READ: Forget teachers vote, Knut tells Jubilee Four days left &ldquo;We have four days left before the mass voter registration ends. It is my plea that all our supporters register because votes are our only weapon in this journey we have begun,&rsquo;&rsquo; he said. Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi echoed Raila&rsquo;s sentiments and asked their supporters to register and give NASA the numbers it needs to beat Jubilee. &ldquo;Those who will not register as voters are Jubilee sympathisers. I ask our supporters not to let us down. Registering is a personal responsibility,&rdquo; Mudavadi said. Senate Minority Leader Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula said NASA brigade is determined to support each other no matter who the flag bearer will be. &ldquo;NASA is united and no amount of propaganda will shake us,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;A win for any of the four leaders including Raila, Kalonzo, Mudavadi and I is a win for all of us. Our victory solemnly lies on votes and it is my prayer that all our supporters utilise the remaining four days and register,&rdquo; he added. ALSO READ: Uhuru confident Jubilee will win with over 70pc Khaniri eulogised his mother and said he had lost a loving parent who was also his close political adviser. Present at the burial were governors Wycliffe Oparanya, Moses Akaranga, senators James Orengo, Anyang Nyong&rsquo;o, Boni Khalwale, Zipporah Kittony, Moses Kajwan&rsquo;g and MPs Paul Otuoma, Wilbur Otichillo, Alfred Agoi, Charles Gimose and former lawmakers Nick Salat, Kenneth Marende and Raphael Wanjala. Oparanya asked Western Kenya leaders to work together and ensure the region&rsquo;s votes remain in one basket. &ldquo;Unity will make us go far as a region. I am also praying that those in NASA will hasten the process of naming a flag bearer then we move ahead with our plan to oust the Jubilee regime,&rsquo;&rsquo; said the Kakamega governor and ODM deputy party leader. Salat maintained he is in NASA to stay and asked the residents to remain united and support the new outfit. &ldquo;Luhya nation has all it requires to lead this nation. It is my prayer that you all support NASA as we wait for the flag bearer to be named. I am also praying for the team to remain firm and united,&rdquo; Salat said.