A mason at the new Kapkutung Primary School in Marakwet West constituency. (Photo: Fred Kibor/Standard) Residents of Kapkutung in Marakwet West sub-county are a happy lot after the community received the first primary school since independence. The children from the area have been walking more than 10km to the nearest school, which has resulted in many dropping out. Residents said successive leaders had used the promise to build a school as a campaign tool every election year but failed to see it through once they were elected. But the current Constituency Development Fund (CDF) committee has lived up to the promise. The residents are happy to finally see the first four classrooms complete and pupils enrolled. The area has an estimated population of 5,000 people. ALSO READ: Government yet to disburse Sh15b CDF cash Leah Kigen, a resident, said the dropout rate was high because young children could not attend the faraway schools as many were discouraged by the long distances. &quot;Children were afraid of walking through the dense forest and during the rainy season, nobody went to school. With this new school, we are sure our children will benefit from education like the rest of the country.&quot; Ms Kigen blamed former leaders for failing to build classrooms even after the community donated land. &quot;Every election year, we are promised a school but once the leaders are in power, they abandon the idea until the next election,&quot; she said. Geoffrey Kipkemoi, another resident, said the project was God-sent as they have been grappling with high school drop-out rates among the youth for a long time. &quot;The biggest nightmare for a parent is where their children can get education. We are relieved and grateful to our MP for considering our plight and ensuring that the community finally has a school,&quot; he said. Marakwet West MP William Kisang said their strategic plan projected that every school in the entire constituency would have at least eight classrooms. ALSO READ: MPs rush to allocate themselves more money ahead of elections &quot;By the end of the next financial year, we want to ensure that this school has all eight classrooms, he said, adding that the school currently has 130 pupils enrolled. &quot;The CDF is alleviating many problems,&quot; he said.