Residents of Kerio Valley have given the Government a 60-day ultimatum to release and implement a task-force report on the Kenya Fluorspar Mining Company. They threatened to walk to Parliament and State House to protest against injustices allegedly perpetrated by the firm for over four decades. Speaking during a charged meeting at Sugutek in Kerio Valley, the residents wondered why the Government was dilly-dallying in releasing the report. They accused Mining Cabinet Secretary Dan Kazungu of &#39;shelving the report&#39;, which was concluded over a year ago. Through Sugutek community trust Chairman Joseph Kandie, the families donated over 9,000 acres of their ancestral land more than 40 years ago but up to date no compensation has been made. Instead, the company and the community have been engaged in endless disputes. &quot;We are demanding Sh3 million for each acre donated and immediate relocation of people living in the mining area. The families have increased to over 20,000 people, up from 1,400,&quot; said Mr Kandie at the weekend. He said they had encountered numerous frustrations at Kazungu&#39;s office in Nairobi, adding that they were tired of waiting. &quot;We are tired of being taken round in circles. The task force report would have put an end to the suffering of the residents who wholeheartedly donated the land for extraction of minerals,&quot; said the community trust chairman. David Saurey, another resident, said he was shocked on one occasion when he went to the CS&#39;s office over the issue. &quot;I was appalled when the CS asked his secretary to ask me to leave my telephone number so that he could call me later as he was busy. Several months down the line, I am still waiting for the call,&quot; he said. He accused the Government of issuing a 21-year special mining lease to Kenya Fluorspar Company Ltd without compensation for the residents. &quot;The 21-year lease will run until March 31, next year, and it should not be renewed until the issues that were raised are implemented,&quot; said Mr Saurey. The firm suspended its mining operations last year over low demand and declining prices for their products. The mining firm played a key role in the region&#39;s economy with over 30,000 residents employed. Residents said the firm should not resume operations until the task force report is released and implemented. &quot;There is no need to reopen the firm. We are struggling a lot economically after the firm was closed but the issues raised need to be addressed first,&quot; said Saurey. Area MP Jackson Kiptanui, who attended the meeting, said the Government was deliberating on compensation, among other issues raised. &quot;A report is to be tabled in Cabinet this week for discussion and I am optimistic the matter will be put to rest soon,&quot; he said. The lawmaker said he would join the residents in protests if the matter is not expedited and treated with the urgency it deserves. He also said the task force report on the company should be made public so that issues that were previously raised by the public can be addressed. Others who attended the meeting included Elgeyo Marakwet Deputy Governor Gabriel Lagat and Woman Representative Susan Chebet.