Slain drug baron Ibrahim Akasha&rsquo;s two sons and their co-accused could spend the rest of their lives in US prisons. Baktash Akasha (40), Ibrahim Akasha (28), Indian national Vijaygiri Goswami (55) and Gulam Hussein (61) from Pakistan appeared before a US grand jury in New York on Tuesday charged with four counts of conspiring to import narcotics into the US. The four were also charged with engaging in production of tonnes of narcotics within Kenya and throughout Africa. According to New York judicial authorities, each count carries a mandatory minimum sentence of 10 years and a maximum of life in prison, with the judge presiding over their case having the final say. &ldquo;The minimum and maximum potential sentences in this case are prescribed by Congress and are provided here for informational purposes only, as any sentencing of the defendants will be determined by the judge,&rdquo; said the officials in statement. The cases are being handled by the Terrorism and International Narcotics Unit. Two assistant US Attorneys Michael D. Lockard and Emil J. Bove III are in charge of the prosecution. ALSO READ: Why the Akashas are wanted in US for trial Reports from American judicial authorities revealed that the US Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and anti-terrorism agents based in Nairobi participated in the raid on the suspects&rsquo; homes and properties in Mombasa&rsquo;s Nyali estate on Friday. The four had been fighting extradition to the US in a protracted legal battle before Mombasa courts. Their defence lawyers have described their transfer to the US as illegal and a violation of court orders that had stayed their extradition.&nbsp; ARREST WARRANT The four were charged a day after they were quietly picked from their homes in Mombasa and spirited to the US on the strength of an arrest warrant issued by a New York court. An indictment issued by US Judge Gabriel Gorenstein on October 28, 2014 and delivered to Kenyan authorities through the US Embassy in Nairobi on November 10 2014, stated that the four were wanted to stand trial in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York. The hunt for the Akashas did not begin on Monday. On March 28, 2014, Baktash met two &lsquo;client&rsquo;s&rsquo; posing as representatives of a Colombian drug trafficking organisation and agreed to supply pure heroin (code-named white crystal). Unknown to him, his &lsquo;clients&rsquo; were DEA agents from the US and their conversations were being recorded. ALSO READ: Uhuru declares Mombasa a narcotics hub, vows to deal with drug barons The trail of conversations between the suspects and undercover DEA is long. In April 25, 2014, Baktash and his brother Ibrahim again met their &lsquo;clients&rsquo; and told them they had contacted a heroin supplier in Pakistan ready to purchase 500 kilograms of high-quality heroin code-named &ldquo;great diamond&rdquo;. Baktash contacted his supplier to inform them that the heroin was destined for US and would cost 12,000 US dollars (Sh1.2 million) per kilo. In response, the anonymous supplier said he had 420 kilos of pure heroin available. In May 2014, Baktash called his &lsquo;client&rsquo; promising three packets of heroin from a potential supplier. The following month, on June 10, 2014, he was on phone again discussing sending samples of heroin to a country within East Africa. In June 2014, Goswami was recorded promising to assist a Colombian drug trafficking ring establish drug processing laboratories in West Africa and East Africa. In August 2014, Baktash and Goswami were again captured on phone explaining that heroin shipments were delayed because of, among other things, religious holidays and rough seas. In September 15, 2014, Baktash and Hussein informed their &lsquo;client&rsquo; that 200 kilograms of heroin would arrive by sea. ALSO READ: Akasha brothers snatched away by unknown gunmen Later, on October 9, 2014, Goswami confirmed he had 198 kilos ready.