Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery has warned Opposition leader Raila Odinga against politicising the fight against narcotics. The CS urged Raila to weigh his words during the electioneering period as they could put him in trouble. Mr Nkaissery was reacting to Raila&#39;s recent visit to North Eastern and Coast regions, where he said the Government was targeting Muslims in the name of fighting drugs. He said Raila would be held responsible for his utterances and added that the Government would not tolerate hate mongers. &quot;I have instructed relevant authorities to investigate Raila for his careless utterances intended to incite the Muslim community against the Government,&quot; he said. The CS said the Government would crack the whip on drug barons as soon as detectives concluded their investigations. ALSO READ: Kalonzo&rsquo;s four political symptoms, why he's a boxer in cement shoes &quot;We will not relent in the war against drugs in this country. All those involved will be brought to book, whether senior or junior,&quot; he added. Nkaissery also criticised the recent court ruling that blocked the Government&#39;s efforts to close the Daadab refugee camp. The tough-talking CS said the Government had no intention of closing down the camp when there were still refugees living there. Speaking in Kajiado Central at the weekend, when he donated school equipment worth Sh5 million to a new school named after him, Nkaissery&nbsp;said the court ruling did not affect the refugees&#39; repatriation as the Government had a plan that would see them return to their home countries. He said as a member of the United Nations, Kenya could not violate human rights. &quot;I&#39;m here today to correct the allegations that the Government was planning to forcefully close the refugee camps. The court ruling is null and void because there is no way we could have closed the camps while the refugees were still there,&quot; said Nkaissery. &quot;I&#39;m happy that the Somalia government has a new president. This is what we are saying - if their country is stable and back to normal, the refugees should go back home.&quot; ALSO READ: Raila Odinga: We are united as NASA to beat Jubilee Meanwhile, Deputy President William Ruto has confirmed that the Government will tarmac the 200km road connecting Kajiado and Narok counties. Speaking in Kitengela and Isinya towns during a voter registration drive, Mr Ruto said plans to build the Isala-Mashuru-Isinya-Kiserian-Ngong-Suswa road were in the initial stages, and promised work would begin this week.