From left KANU secretary general Nick Salat, Ford Kenya Leader Mosses Wetangula, Cord Principal Raila Odinga,Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto during NASA Rally at Bomet town. (Photo: Kipsang Joseph/Standard) Opposition to the Sh38 billion Itare water project took centre stage at Bomet Green Stadium&nbsp;with&nbsp; elders from the region reiterating that the the water reservoir in Kuresoi would divert rivers from Mau and Ndoinet forests to Nakuru and Baringo counties and leave downstream counties disadvantaged. Speaking during a rally in Bomet County yesterday, the Kipsigis Clans Association and Myoot elders said they would go to court to block the construction of the reservoir. The elders, led by their chairman Joseph Towett and Myoot&rsquo;s Bomet Chapter Chairperson Milgo arap Barta, said the project would pose an ecological disaster, and insisted that there had been minimal consultation&nbsp;&nbsp; before the project was implemented. Towett said the project would pose a danger to the people of Bomet and those living around the tea plantations on Kericho besides disrupting lives in other counties. &ldquo;Five rivers are now endangered; our leaders should wake up and join in protecting our water source,&rdquo; said Towett who read the memorandum prepared by the elders. ALSO READ: Revealed: Talks that convinced CORD to accept the NASA name Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, agreed with the leaders and said the project should be stopped to protect downstream rivers from drying up. Benefit people He said the project would benefit the people of&nbsp; Nakuru County at the expense of other counties. &ldquo;Like the Muranga County water project, Itare is a ticking time bomb that should worry everyone,&rdquo; Raila said. He accused the Jubilee Government of implementing projects that would disrupt the lives of those people living downstream. Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto, who was also present at the rally, also opposed the project.