One of the most asked questions is whether Kenya has a green economy. Before answering the question, it is good to understand what a green economy entails. A green economy is defined as one that aims at reducing environmental risks and ecological scarcities, and that aims for sustainable development without degrading the environment. In the past, the country has tried to come up with various blueprints that aim to address factors that will contribute to the country being labeled as a green economy. In 2012, for example, National Environmental Management Authority published a booklet entitled Green Initiatives in Kenya. The booklet expanded the above definition of a green economy. Among other things, it said that such an economy &ldquo;encompasses all activities or actions that help reduce carbon emissions into the atmosphere which is a major component of greenhouse gases that enhances global warming thus causing climate change.&rdquo; &ldquo;Further, green economy upholds the efficient use of natural resources and energy while enabling economic growth that supports creation of job opportunities and improvement of livelihoods thus alleviating poverty,&rdquo; it added. Although it might be difficult to quantify the said opportunities in Kenya, Nema talked of &ldquo;major milestones&rdquo; that have already been attained. These include renewable energy resources, agriculture, water harvesting, environmental legislation, sound waste management through recycling efforts and waste water treatment among others. However, looking at the drought situation, one needs more persuasion to believe that enough strides have been made. There have been little efforts to harvest rain water. Last week, the city streets were flooded after a little downpour. All that water simply goes went waste as there are no mechanisms to trap it for future use. While the country is making some headway in installing alternative energy sources such as geothermal power production, solar energy, biogas energy, the country has largely relied on hydro-electricity that becomes erratic during the dry season. For the country to have truly green economy, much efforts will be required to implement existing policy.