Parts of Australia&#39;s farming industry are rushing to recruit a new generation of tech-savvy graduates as the sector swaps its bucolic past for a future of drones, robots and automated sensors. The push comes as cutting-edge machinery is used to plug a labor shortage on the nation&#39;s remote farms that threatens to derail its ambitions to become Asia&#39;s food bowl. &quot;For the first time in many years, we&#39;re finding it easier to attract graduates because agriculture, particularly technology in agriculture, is back on the radar,&quot; said Felicity Hennessy, general manager of innovation at agribusiness Ruralco. For years, potential recruits to Australian agriculture have been turned off by the harsh image of traditional farming, but a marked acceleration towards automation has piqued the interest of young generations, with jobs available to do everything from developing crop-protecting drones to crunching data on cattle nutrition. &quot;The proliferation of drones and sensors are the key drivers,&quot; said Hennessy, adding that Ruralco&#39;s graduate program had seen a rise in the number and quality of applicants. ALSO READ: We can only mitigate effects of drought While Australia is among the world&#39;s leaders in robotics for outdoor use, having given birth to the first robot to round up cattle, the A$4 billion agriculture technology industry is still in its infancy. It is mainly just a few companies that are big enough to recruit. The nation&#39;s largest cattle firm Australian Agricultural Company (AACo) is one of the local firms in the sector that has regularly been hiring tech-savvy youngsters. &quot;Interest in agriculture is rising, from engineers to science-type graduates,&quot; said Gerard Davis, who heads a team of seven in an innovation department at AACo that started under three years ago. Data from Rimfire Resources, a recruiting firm specialised in farming, showed 4,600 agricultural jobs were advertised on the internet in 2016, from an average of 3,750 in the past three years. &quot;It is difficult to say whether the increase is driven by technology, but there is a clear shift for off-the-farm roles,&quot; said Nigel Crawley, a director at Rimfire Resources. DOWN ON THE FARM New degrees such as agri-sciences are being added by universities, with a sharp rise in students who do not have a farming background. ALSO READ: Prevalence of aflatoxin understated City-born engineering student Michael Forrai had never set foot on a farm, but as part of his studies is now testing weed-spraying functions on robots in wheat fields near Emerald, a remote town in the state of Queensland. &quot;I had never heard of Emerald before and really would have never expected to work on a farm,&quot; said the 30-year-old student from the University of Sydney. &quot;Now, I see it as an amazing opportunity ... I am definitely considering staying in agricultural robotics.&quot; But competition is stiff for agricultural companies looking to recruit engineers or tech graduates. &quot;We have to be looking all the time,&quot; said Matt Pryor, the founder of water and livestock sensors maker Observant, citing companies in aerospace, automotive, finance, healthcare and e-commerce vying for the candidates. Observant provides web-based software to allow farmers to check water levels remotely. The system collects data from soil moisture sensors, weather stations and cameras. The 13-year-old company employs a staff of 12, having added three technicians last year. &quot;We changed our mindset from being position-focused to talent-focused and that can be tough because you may take somebody before the business is ready,&quot; said Pryor. ALSO READ: Officers dispatched to fight tsetse menace in counties &quot;In a competitive market, you have to be at market price or above,&quot; he said, declining to give more details.