President Uhuru Kenyatta has exuded confidence that Jubilee will win with over 70 percent in the August General Election. The President said it has been manifested in the voter registration that Jubilee zones had registered the highest number of new voters. &ldquo;It is now clear that by 8am, we will have sent the Opposition home. I am urging voters to come out in large numbers and register so that we can show them that we are no joke,&rdquo; he said while addressing residents in Nyahururu town. At the same time, he lashed at Opposition leader Raila Odinga for accusing IEBC of manipulating the voter register. The President argued that as a national leader, it was wrong for Raila to accuse the new team yet he was the one who had called for the dismissal of the former officials. &ldquo;We wonder why he is now accusing the new team. This is not the right way to go as a leader,&rdquo; he said. The President further said his party is an organised team and rubbished claims that the Government was manipulating the voter register. ALSO READ: &ldquo;Our people&rdquo; syndrome obstructs justice &ldquo;These are baseless claims by people who have sensed defeat and they should not keep on giving us ultimatums,&rdquo; he cautioned. Profile the elderly Elsewhere in Nyandarua County, President Uhuru started his tour with a promise to sink more boreholes to address the drought. While acknowledging that the persistent drought had taken its toll on locals and their livestock, the President has called on area legislators to liaise with other Government officials in identifying families which have been affected. He directed the leaders to also get a profile of the elderly, the poor and widows. He was addressing residents of Kinangop Constituency. In his stop-overs in Magumu, Haraka, Njabini, Engineer and Ndunyu Njeru centres, the President called on the youth to turn up and register as voters. Nyandarua has been identified as one of the counties which has registered the lowest number of voters. &ldquo;My people, I am urging you not to fail me. Utilise the remaining days to register and vote for me in the August 8 polls,&rdquo; he said. The President was accompanied by Devolution CS Mwangi Kiunjuri and Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs Sicily Kariuki, Governor Daniel Waithaka his deputy Waithaka Mwangi and a host of MPs. ALSO READ: Polls aspirant injured as Jubilee political rivalry turns violent in Nakuru