Deputy President William Ruto has predicted that the ruling coalition will retain power, citing higher registration of new voters in perceived Jubilee strongholds. Mr Ruto took Jubilee Party campaigns to Makueni County yesterday and declared the governing party was headed for victory going by the statistics so far released by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) on new voters registered. Speaking in Kambu market in Kibwezi East, where he made a stop-over to sensitise voters, the DP laughed off the Opposition&#39;s assertion that the August 8 presidential vote would be won during the registration of new voters. &quot;Our opponents (Opposition) had told Kenyans in 2013 that they would win the election, but they failed. Recently they told us that the 2017 General Election would be won in 30 days, depending on new voter registration figures, and it is now clear who between Jubilee Party and them is leading in voter listing,&quot; said Ruto. He said JP was committed to ensuring an all-inclusive government and equitable distribution of resources irrespective of political inclination. &nbsp;ONE FAMILY ALSO READ: Jubilee strongholds lead in voter listing as IEBC likely to miss target &quot;The Jubilee government will ensure that every single Kenyan is served equally irrespective of their political orientation because we are one family,&quot; said the DP. On the famine being witnessed in different parts of the country, Ruto declared that the Government had put in place adequate measures to ensure no one died as a result of hunger. The DP urged the Kamba community to back President Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s re-election bid, saying the Government had not sidelined the region in terms of development projects and appointments to key Government jobs. He cited the examples of Kenya Medical Training College chairman Philip Kaloki, Sports Kenya Board Chairman Fred Muteti and NSSF chairman Gideon Ndambuki, who had accompanied him on his tour as a demonstration that the Jubilee administration had been fair to the community in terms of appointments. Ruto campaigned for Prof Kaloki, who declared he would be in the race for the Kibwezi East parliamentary seat currently held by Jessica Mbalu. He also addressed roadside rallies in Thange, Kibwezi, Makindu, Emali, Sultan Hamud and Salama, and later Chumvi in Machakos County. ALSO READ: PS and Opposition differ on drought mitigation steps