The structure and membership of top organs of the National Super Alliance (Nasa) have been unveiled even as the Opposition gears up for the next elections. Opposition leaders yesterday unveiled a 12-member team to oversee activities of Nasa, including ensuring the coalition has a flag bearer and running mate in the presidential elections on August 8. The team, to be known as the National Coordinating Committee (NCC), has three representatives from each of the four parties making the coalition. NCC members, senators James Orengo, Agnes Zani, Boni Khalwale, Johnstone Muthama, MPs Eseli Simiyu, Sakwa Bunyasi, Francis Nyenze, Chris Wamalwa, Timothy Bosire, Farah Maalim and Mr Kipruto arap Kirwa will also establish rules for joint nominations where circumstances demand. ANC is yet to fill its third slot. NCC will also prepare the instruments and rules of engagement for Nasa and report to the four principals. Similarly, Opposition chiefs ODM&#39;s Raila Odinga, Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Moses Wetangula (Ford Kenya) launched a four-member team, called Nasa Board, that will be responsible for management of the coalition&#39;s affairs before and after elections. ALSO READ: Kenyan MP escapes, bodyguard detained in Uganda over voter fraud claims The board has Siaya Senator Orengo of ODM his Machakos counterpart Muthama (Wiper), Tongaren MP Simiyu (Ford Kenya) and his Nambale counterpart Bunyasi (ANC). The Standard has also established NCC and the Nasa Board will be assisted by another team of eight technocrats that will offer professional advice on coalition matters, strategy and draw the structure of Nasa. This team has Nick Biketi, Dr Cemi Mutia, David Ndii, Elisha Ongoya and Grace Katasi. There is a proposal that lawyers Paul Mwangi and Anthony Oluoch should also join the team. The eight represent interests of the four anchor parties and will brief the principals from time to time. The CEO of Nasa&#39;s joint secretariat will be Mr Norman Magaya, who has been in CORD in the same capacity. In a statement read in turns by Raila, Mudavadi, Kalonzo and Wetang&#39;ula, the leaders also disclosed there is a technical and strategy team that will give technical support to NCC. &quot;These organs will be answerable to the co-principals of the alliance. They will start work immediately and make proposals which will be ratified by the leadership of the coalition,&quot; said Mudavadi. NCC will draft the coalition agreement that will secure a smooth transition after the General Election, maintain stability and unity in Nasa. ALSO READ: Raphael Tuju rules out joining Opposition under Raila It will also ensure effective implementation of Nasa&#39;s manifesto and other development plans. It will also devise ways to defend, protect and uphold the Constitution while ensuring the rule of law and security. NCC is also expected to come up with a joint election plan, manifesto and a blueprint on issues of concern and challenges facing the country. It is required to put in place a framework and structure for the secretariat of Nasa. The leaders have also tasked NCC to audit the electoral system, election laws and processes and the capacity of the Wafula Chebukati-led IEBC to conduct free and fair elections. Also, the 12 members have a duty to design a strategy for success in national and county elections and secure majorities in Parliament and county assemblies. &quot;Our alliance is broad and bold. It is conceived as a mass movement of political parties, institutions and organised groups and individuals among others,&quot; said Kalonzo. The four principals said that the alliance is a special purpose movement to uproot Jubilee regime from power for its misrule and abdication of responsibility and collusion in runaway corruption, and dwindling state of Kenya&#39;s economy. ALSO READ: NASA leaders meet for flag bearer talks &quot;Nasa is a vehicle for an alternative accountable, responsible and responsive leadership that will restore hope in self-government among Kenyans. We are keen on transparency, accountability, participation of the people, devolution of power and resources, equal opportunity and equity for all,&quot; said Raila.