NAIROBI, KENYA: Little has announced a security upgrade in association with Hello Kenyan on its Rider app. The security feature includes a panic alert function on the app that allows you to send a distress signal when a rider or driver encounters or witnesses an incident that poses a danger to their safety and that of other citizens. Speaking at the launch CEO of Little Kamal Budhabatti said, &ldquo;The three things that matter to Little about our customers are Comfort, affordability, and Safety. Today we have come to tick the third box on safety and security in full&rdquo; This signal will be relayed to Peace Cops, who will get in touch with the riders and help you navigate out of the situation while alerting other citizens and road users. &ldquo;At Little, we pride ourselves as being an innovative market leader, embracing technology to address real issues that face us locally and this is just one of the many firsts you have seen and will continue to see from us. &ldquo; said Mr. Budhabhatti. The service is a partnership with Little drivers who will act as peace agents on behalf of peace cop so that together as a system they can work to get riders to their destination safely. This service will be available for both drivers and riders starting 16th of February 2017. Dr. Mark Leleruk, Commissioner of Police and Program Co-coordinator at Peace Cop spoke on the objectives of the Peace Cop initiative &ldquo;in spirit of community policing, Hello Kenyan is partnering with Little in ensuring public safety and crime prevention. 107 is a platform for early warning and early response for the Administration Police Service. He also lauded the new development as a game changer in the market, &ldquo;We are proud to be associated with Little in this initiative. We believe in extending technological expertise to solve security problems&rdquo;. &nbsp;&ldquo;Little is an African brand and we are constantly striving to provide African solutions to our unique challenges. This service is among the first we intend to roll out as we continuously work to ensure our clients get the best service in the most efficient manner&rdquo; said Mr. Budhabhatti. Little was launch last year in July and has seen a steady growth in numbers of drivers and app users. It has currently over 7,000 drivers on the service and registers over 2,500 corporate rides and well over 8,000 consumer rides.