Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto has said national Government must be held accountable for more than Sh1 billion used to campaign for Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed AU post. Ruto said it was a misuse of public resources to spend such amount of money to popularise an individual for a position. The former council of governor&rsquo;s chairman questioned Jubilee&rsquo;s priorities terming the move to spend more than Sh1 billion as an extravagance that should be discouraged. &quot;It is saddening that Kenyans are currently dying from hunger and the government cannot supply relief food in the name of lack of funds while it could not hesitate spending a billion in campaigns for an individual employment,&quot; Ruto said. He added: &quot;Amina already had a ministerial job and I wonder how the Government could marshal resources to popularise her. How would her being the African Union Commission chair benefit Kenyans?&quot; Ruto posed. Speaking at Kapkesosio Primary School grounds during his Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM) win anniversary, Ruto said Kenyans must ask President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto to account for the money before seeking another term. ALSO READ: NASA: A gift from the gods or a curse? &quot;No one should be allowed to misuse public fund and assume that Kenyans are happy. President Uhuru and William must explain this to Kenyans,&quot; he added. Ruto held the anniversary to commemorate the win in Nyangores Ward last year where CCM beat Jubilee during a by-election. He added that the heavy spending to try and secure the AU position was a replica of the financial scandals that has rocked the ruling administration. &quot;The ruling administration has become a bother to Kenyans they do not mind misusing tax payers money and ignores its people during the time of need,&quot; The vocal Governor added. The Governor who was a companied by several MCAs aligned to his CCM party said Kenyans should consider sending home Jubilee since it does not represent their interest. &quot;This is a government that mind a few people...if it can spend a billion seeking employment of an individual what is the need have them in office anymore?&quot; posed the Governor. He at the same time raised alarm over alleged plan by Jubilee legislators to slash funding to devolved units this year because of the impending general election. ALSO READ: NASA: A gift from the gods or a curse? &quot;The scheme to slash funding is uncalled for and we would not like our legislatures to take advantage of the election to deny counties funds and Kenyans development. Election is a one day event that should not be used to determine the amount of funds to the counties,&quot; Ruto said. He threatened to rally Kenyans to stop the MPs who will support the slashing of the county funds in parliament saying the MPs should take a stand and protect devolution in the country. &quot;Jubilee&#39;s attempts to zone the country should be opposed. All spirants seeking presidency should be able to move around the country and sell their agenda,&quot; Ruto said referring to the NASA rally which was preceded by youth demonstrating and claiming Bomet was a Jubilee zone. The Governor said if Jubilee would want to zone the country then Bomet would be zone as a CCM party strong hold. He at the same time said it was regrettable that after the rally Jubilee have started to portray him as an ally of the opposition outfit NASA a move he said was wrong adding his party would stand alone and only associated to coalition that share similar ideologies.