Opposition leaders under the National Super Alliance (NASA) umbrella will today hold their first rally since they formally endorsed their new coalition. The rally at the Bomet Green Stadium in Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s Rift Valley backyard, which brings together ODM&rsquo;s Raila Odinga, Wiper&rsquo;s Kalonzo Musyoka, Ford Kenya&rsquo;s Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula and Amani&rsquo;s Musalia Mudavadi, will be hosted by local leaders from the Kipsigis community. Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto and key officials of his Chama Cha Mashinani party are also expected at the meeting. Even as legislators from the North Rift dared him to declare his position and officially join the outfit during the much anticipated public rally, the governor dismissed claims he was joining the new alliance. &ldquo;I have not declared my interest to join NASA, any thing else is speculation,&rdquo; said Ruto. Nasa&rsquo;s choice of Bomet as its entry into the populous Rift Valley set tongues wagging in the region, with most leaders and pundits saying the stage had been set for Governor Ruto&rsquo;s big political move. ALSO READ: Revealed: Inside Jubilee&rsquo;s vote machine to beat Raila Odinga Rift Valley MPs have dismissed the NASA rally as inconsequential but called for peace during the Bomet function. Opposition sympathiser &ldquo;The NASA rally in Bomet is a non-issue for us now. It is a democratic right for the organisers to campaign anywhere in the country,&rdquo; said Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen. Murkomen, however, wished away questions on the rally&rsquo;s significance, saying it will not translate to votes. His Nandi counterpart Stephen Sang said the event &ldquo;will not at all affect Jubilee support in the region&rdquo; as Governor Ruto has always been a &ldquo;stand-alone&rdquo;. &ldquo;Even those who agree with the governor on matters of devolution will not agree with his inclination towards the opposition,&rdquo; said Sang. Murkomen and Sang recounted that it was not the first time Ruto hosted Raila in Bomet, saying the governor would join the opposition in the fullness of time. ALSO READ: Revealed: Inside Jubilee&rsquo;s vote machine to beat Raila Odinga &ldquo;His denial does not say much. He has not gathered courage to state clearly that he is a sympathiser of the opposition,&rdquo; said Sang. National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation (NWCPC) chairman Julius Kones termed Ruto&rsquo;s decision to host NASA in his county as a &ldquo;political blunder&rdquo; that will cost him his seat. Dr Kones, who is aiming to unseat Ruto via the Jubilee Party, said the governor had literally paved the way for him to take over the county&rsquo;s leadership. &ldquo;Though democracy thrives in South Rift region, the thing is that the region, more so Bomet County, is a Jubilee zone and the governor&rsquo;s seat belongs to Jubilee Party. Thankfully, the governor has paved the way for me by hobnobbing with NASA,&rdquo; he said. Yesterday, Governor Ruto&rsquo;s media officer Woka Nyagwoka said the governor was not the convener of the meeting but welcomed the leaders to engage Bomet residents. &ldquo;He is clear that his CCM party stands for the empowerment of the devolution and has called on people to pay keen attention to the politicians and welcome those who were ready,&rdquo; said Woka. Myoot Kipsigis Council of Elders chairman Paul Leleito also distanced the council from the NASA meeting. ALSO READ: Revealed: Talks that convinced CORD to accept the NASA name &ldquo;There is a report that has been circulating that the Myoot Kipsigis Council of Elders is one of the organisers of today&rsquo;s NASA meeting. We have nothing to do with the opposition&rsquo;s rally,&rdquo; said Leleito. Speaking to The Standard on Saturday ahead of the meeting, Mudavadi said they will use the opportunity to invite the residents of the Rift Valley to join the outfit &ldquo;that will form the next government&rdquo;. &ldquo;We will spare Jubilee any personal attacks but will remind the people of Rift Valley of false promises on roads that never happen, the plight of tea and maize farmers and ask them to join the winning team,&rdquo; said Mudavadi. Presidential candidate On Monday, the opposition leaders agreed to work together and formed a National Coordinating Committee that will work on the rules, modalities and structure of the alliance as well as help identify a presidential candidate. The group includes legislators James Orengo, Johnstone Muthama, Eseli Simiyu, Sakwa Bunyasi, Francis Nyenze, Agnes Zani, Bonnie Khalwale, Chris Wamalwa, Timothy Bosire, Farah Maalim and Kipruto Kirwa. The Orengo-led team has been asked to reach out to other leaders, including Kanu chairman Gideon Moi and former Lands minister Charity Ngilu among other politicians. Kanu Secretary General Nick Salat told The Standard on Saturday that he will attend the rally as one of the party representative and noted that the NASA political formation represented the aspirations of all Kenyans. ALSO READ: NASA: Four co-principals sign initial pact on coalition ticket &ldquo;I will be present at Bomet to welcome our brothers and sisters across the country for a political journey. I believe in NASA,&rdquo; said Salat. Mudavadi said they would expand the committee. &ldquo;We want to make sure that the coalition is all inclusive and brings on board people from all the 43 tribes and across every part of the country,&rdquo; said Mudavadi. Yesterday, the Bomet Green Stadium was a beehive of activity as tents and the dais was erected. The meeting is expected to bring together more than 20 governors and over 100 MPs from across the country. Kalonzo said they would use the opportunity to make a strong political statement to Jubilee that their time was up. &ldquo;From the meeting at Bomet, they will start to know that things have changed and the ground has shifted,&rdquo; said the Wiper leader. From Bomet, the NASA brigade plans to move across the country to urge Kenyans to register to vote in big numbers, said Wetang&rsquo;ula.