BUNGOMA, KENYA: The intensity at which Governor Ken Lusaka is launching infrastructural projects in Bungoma is stirring a huge public debate, with his rivals seeing it as a calculated strategy to edge them out of the August elections race. Within a month, he has sunk more than half a billion of money in the tarmacking, grading and murraming of roads besides the construction of bridges in all the nine sub-counties in the region. &quot;That is not even a quarter of what is in the pipeline,&quot; says Stephen Nendela, the roads CEC. &quot;By the end of the year, Bungoma will be the favourite spot for investors because of its modern infrastructure.&quot; By the end of this ambitious plan, the roads CEC says they would have tarmacked at least 50 kilometres, murramed more than 1,000 kilometres of roads and graded over 500 kilometres of rural roads. All this is expected to cost Sh1.7 billion. Ultimately, the Bungoma Deputy Governor Hillary Chongwony observes, this region&#39;s economy will improve. &quot;With a growing economy, Bungoma will no longer be facing high cases of poverty. This has been our government&#39;s grand plan since we assumed power in 2013,&quot; said Mr Chongwony. ALSO READ: I am in Jubilee to stay, Governor Lusaka asserts While launching a bridge construction in Bumula constituency that would connect Bungoma and Kakamega counties a week ago, Governor Lusaka noted that it was his desire to leave a lasting legacy to the younger generation when he exits office in 2022. Mr Lusaka said it would haunt him if he does not transform Bungoma&#39;s business climate. &quot;I am after touching the lives of the vulnerable in our society. This (Masuno) bridge will ease the movement of goods, services and people, therefore promoting inter-counties commerce.&quot; Hours after the launch of the bridge that is expected to take six months to complete, Governor Lusaka and his deputy commissioned the tarmacking of two roads in the outskirts of Bungoma town: Lusaka and Marell. &quot;We were in Chwele market two days ago where we launched the tarmacking of the town&#39;s road. Yesterday, we were in Cheptais market for a similar mission. Tomorrow, I&#39;ll do the same for Kapsokwony town. I am here to serve your interests,&quot; the Governor told a huge crowd during the launch of the tarmacking of Lusaka Road. Kanduyi Constituency residents say the tarmacking of Lusaka and Marell roads will significantly improve their lives. &quot;These two roads have been a headache to us. I will no longer be struggling getting transport,&quot; said Mary Nekoye, 48, a businesswoman in Bungoma Town. Her sentiment is echoed by Penina Chepkwemoi, a mama mboga in Cheptais, Mt Elgon: &quot;The move would boost her earnings especially during rainny seasons when transport is a problem. Mboga itafika sokoni kwa haraka,&quot; she said. Political analysts observe that Governor Lusaka has succeeded where his peers are struggling because of his wealth of experience in administration, and his unquestionable loyalty to the president and his deputy. &quot;He (Lusaka) is a still water that runs deep; a smooth operator whose sight is set on the horizon. He is an asset not only to Jubilee but also to Bungoma people,&quot; observes Hezron Onyancha, a political analyst based in Nairobi. ALSO READ: Governor Ken Lusaka urges Bungoma people to register as voters in large numbers