Activists and opinion leaders have urged communities in the county to embrace negotiated democracy. The groups, which include Peace and Rights Kitale, are spearheading talks among the cosmopolitan county&#39;s communities to cultivate harmony and co-existence. The group played a critical role in the 2013 General Election, when it pushed for ethnic representation in the county leadership. Under the Mabanga Peace Accord, major communities shared elective positions to ensure fair representation and also reduce hostilities. Governor Patrick Khaemba and Senator Henry ole Ndiema are beneficiaries of negotiated democracy. But since last year, political hostilities have arisen between the Bukusu and Sabaot communities - the former accuse the latter of ditching the Opposition to support the Government. A number of Bukusu elders have dismissed any chances of entering into negotiated democracy prior to the 2017 General Election. ALSO READ: Google launches campaign to promote peace ahead of the election The elders said such agreements had &quot;failed miserably in the past&quot;. The elders, who converged under the umbrella of the Bukusu Council of Elders (BCE), said the Mabanga accord &quot;was not adhered to and some of the communities did not benefit as negotiated&quot; hence their disinterest in a similar agreement ahead of the August polls. A statement signed by the council said: &quot;As a community, we will not participate in such negotiations as happened in 2013 since we were conned. The Mabanga Accord was only a political fraud. The other players were dishonest and we learnt a lesson.&quot; Meanwhile, two groupings have emerged as the race for the governorship hots up. One camp led by Endebess MP Robert Pukose is backing United Nations employee Maurice Bisau, while Saboti MP David Lazaro and Woman Representative Janet Nangabo are backing Water and Irrigation Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa. On Saturday, Mr Lazaro, Ms Nangabo and Bungoma Governor Kenneth Lusaka asked Mr Wamalwa to listen to the voice of the people and contest in Trans Nzoia instead of Nairobi. &quot;The pressure is too much... come back and represent (Trans Nzoia residents); it is here that you are assured of a win,&quot; Mr Lusaka said. ALSO READ: Kalonzo Musyoka: I am not decamping from NASA