In the ongoing education reforms; we must ask the question: Who are we reforming the system for? This question is critical since the sector is at a cross-roads and we need to act with enormous precision. We must cross the Rubicon as it were! The shift must be about how we teach and what our children learn in school. We must begin by explaining to our teaching force that doing the same thing; the same way will not yield different results. We must also invest more in how we prepare our teaching force since they are at the frontline of implementing the new curriculum. A look at the proposed curriculum changes; it is proposed that there should be a more universal emphasis on transversal competencies. These are a broad range of knowledge, skills, attitudes, work habits and character traits that are nurtured and developed through conscious education related decisions to prepare the learners to succeed in the modern world (both academic, career and civic undertakings). These can further be defined as applied skills, cross-curricular skills, cross-disciplinary, transferable, and non-cognitive soft skills. With the massification of media and technological reach; our learners need to be guided and assessed on their ability to obtain and analyse information through ICT, their ability to critically evaluate information and media content and put that information to good use and lastly, the ethical utilisation of ICT and the attendant infrastructure. ALSO READ: Curriculum: New wine, old wineskins As we reform the system; we need to continually ask ourselves as a nation if our legislations, policies, investment choices and frameworks lend their support to the practice and development of transversal competencies. For this to connect with the general populace; some form of national dialogue and or debate on the purpose and practice of basic education must begin in earnest. This debate must be moderated in a way that ideology and sloganising gets replaced by analysis, evidence and sound argument devoid of partisan positions. We must ask hard questions but also suggest practical ways in which the children of this nation should be educated. The national teaching force is the fulcrum upon which this reform exercise shall be realised. Research has shown that; superior technological equipment, relevant teaching and learning materials in the hands of an ill prepared/trained teacher does not make a difference while the reverse ( a well prepared/trained teacher) can yield up to 70 per cent improvement in learning outcomes even in situations where the teacher is starved of extra support and materials! Teachers. They need to upgrade their menu of 21st century teaching skills.