A man has been fined Sh30 million after being found guilty of human trafficking and defilement. 30-year-old John Njenga Njeri, will serve a 30-year jail term if he cannot raise the fine. Mr Njenga appeared before Narok Chief Magistrate Wilbroda Juma charged with kidnapping a 17-year-old Form Two girl on diverse dates between September 6 and 10, 2015, at K-Annet estate on the outskirts of Narok town. The court heard that the minor and her schoolmate had sneaked out of school and linked up with Njenga&nbsp;and Samuel Ndung&#39;u Waweru&nbsp;in a bar in Narok town. They later went to Njenga&#39;s house where the minors were holed up for days. Parents of one of the girls got wind of an illicit affair between their daughter and a barman and when the school administration called informing them of her disappearance, they knew where to start looking, the court was told. The girls were found in Njenga&#39;s house and he was arrested but Mr Ndung&#39;u is still on the run after he was freed on a police bond. ALSO READ: It is life in jail for Meru resident who defiled nine-year-old Njenga&nbsp;was fined a further Sh50, 000 or in default serve six months in jail for giving the minor alcohol with the intention of sexually exploiting her. Ms Juma&nbsp;wondered why the bar where the offence took place was not investigated. The sentences run consecutively meaning Njenga&nbsp;will serve the two sentences one after another if he cannot pay the two fines altogether. The court summoned the officer commanding Narok Police Station to explain the circumstances of Ndung&#39;u&#39;s disappearance. The magistrate&nbsp;said the prosecution had proved its case beyond reasonable doubt, adding that the facts of the case were well-corroborated. Meanwhile, child rights crusaders in Narok have called for tougher anti-female genital mutilation legislation that will hold the chiefs and the community at large responsible for any incident reported in their region. The move comes following the increasing cases of FGM in many parts of the county despite the existence of numerous anti-FGM laws. The Director of Public Prosecutions and other stakeholders felt that such policies would give a community the collective responsibility of taking care of the girl child. ALSO READ: Amorous teacher whipped for defiling three pupils &quot;It has been very difficult to prosecute cases dealing with FGM because the community collaborates to hide the people involved, they even coach the girls on how to tamper with investigations in court so that no one is arrested,&quot; Mercy Nyokabi, a prosecutor said. &nbsp;