Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka has dismissed speculation that he is plotting to ditch the opposition alliance, claiming it was a scheme by some rivals to undermine his presidential bid. Kalonzo termed as propaganda reports that he plans to decamp from the National Super Alliance (NASA) should he fail to be named as its presidential flagbearer. The former vice-president, who is tussling for the alliance&rsquo;s ticket with Raila Odinga, Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula and Musalia Mudavadi, declared nothing will stop him from going for the top seat. He said that during the Wiper party delegates conference, he was endorsed for the presidential seat adding that nothing has changed since then. &ldquo;It is my right to go for the presidential seat through NASA. Some agents who are not comfortable with the new alliance are agents of our competitors,&rdquo; said Kalonzo. He also denied he was facing rebellion in his Ukambani backyard. Addressing a Press conference in Kisii town where he is currently on a campaign tour, Kalonzo said he was in NASA to stay, contrary to reports in a section of the media that he was about to betray his colleagues by either going it alone or joining other political forces. ALSO READ: Jubilee strongholds lead in voter listing as IEBC likely to miss target He said there were no wrangles or suspicion in the new alliance and claimed the reports were calculated to spark tension in NASA, which seeks to unseat President Uhuru Kenyatta. He called on other NASA leaders to remain focussed on the mission to send the Jubilee government home. Kalonzo said there were no wrangles in NASA, adding that no amount of ridicule or speculation can derail their course. It was reported in a section of the media that Kalonzo was facing an internal revolt in Wiper over fears by his henchmen that&nbsp; the party might betray its Opposition partners ahead of the August elections. The claims came amid growing misunderstanding between Kalonzo and his key party henchmen, senators David Musila (Kitui), Mutula Kilonzo Jnr (Makueni) and Johnstone Muthama (Machakos). The former VP was responding to media reports by Musila warning Kalonzo against ditching CORD. He said Wiper Party delegates have the final say on his next political move. ALSO READ: IEBC gives notice to voters with shared ID numbers &ldquo;We are equal in the alliance (NASA) and continue to support each other. We are not in the campaigns but mobilising people to register in numbers,&ldquo; he said yesterday. Kalonzo said he had been in constant touch with Raila Odinga in the two days he has been in Kisii. On Sunday, while in Kisii, Kalonzo called on Raila and other NASA leaders to support him for the presidency to send the Jubilee government packing. He said Jubilee is in for serious trouble and called on the NASA coordinating&nbsp; committee to re-look at some parts in the country where Jubilee could defeat them in other elective positions. And Wiper party officials and aspirants insisted that Kalonzo was the best bet as the NASA presidential candidate. Speaking in Nyamira where they joined Kalonzo in campaigns, they urged the former Vice President not to back down for anyone ahead of the next polls in August. &ldquo;Our party is not a village party and we have confidence that Mr Kalonzo will win the August polls,&rdquo; said Borabu MP Ben Momanyi. ALSO READ: IEBC gives notice to voters with shared ID numbers Aspirants who addressed the rallies included gubernatorial aspirants Lumumba Nyaberi, Justice (Rtd) David Onyancha and senatorial aspirant Mose Nyambega.