Baringo Senator Gideon Moi has petitioned the government to act swiftly and curb rising insecurity in Baringo South. Speaking at Mochongoi ward, Gideon said residents are entitled to live in peace and called on President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto to beef up security in the area. Residents are living in fear after they were attacked by bandits from Pokot three days ago leaving a woman and a man with bullet injuries and torched 52 houses before driving away dozen heads of livestock at Kapkechir village. The senator promised to meet elders from Pokot to address the issue. &ldquo;I have heard your cries and I am going to meet leaders from Pokot, sit down and address this issue, we have talked before and peace prevailed,&rdquo; said Gideon. The senator vowed to ensure the government compensates families that lost property during the attack. Gideon also warned against politicising insecurity in the region and called on Parliamentary Security Committee Chairman and Tiaty MP Asman Kamama to help restore calm in the region. ALSO READ: Nairobi crying out for efficient transport The senator said the attacks were triggered by the dispute over the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC) land in Laikipia. The land, he said, had been allocated to Pokot to graze their animals during drought but they were barred after some influential people deployed hundreds of security personnel to man it. &ldquo;The chaos experienced is as a result of ADC land being grabbed by some people, it had been allocated to the Pokot to graze their animals during drought periods but were pushed out,&rdquo; Gideon said. He called for deployment of more Kenya Police Reservists and a police camp to be established in the region. But Baringo South Assistant County Commissioner Michael Gakinya said the skirmishes started after locals drove back cattle belonging to Pokot herders which had strayed during the night. He expressed fears over the rising number of illegal arms in the hands of the Pokot community saying the situation could worsen if the Tugen acquire the same. &ldquo;The Pokot have high numbers of illegal arms, I don&rsquo;t know how they acquire them,&rdquo; said Gakinya. ALSO READ: Uhuru forms Sh4.5 billion urban transport system for Nairobi Gideon donated 100 bags of maize to families that were displaced during the attacks.