&nbsp; A Form Two student has committed suicide after being dumped by his girlfriend of four years. The 16-year-old student at Ombaka Secondary School at Nyando in Kisumu County was on Sunday night found dangling on a rope in his room. Witnesses said his demise marked the end of a two-month battle to retain his girlfriend who is a Form One student in the same school. The boy had shared his predicament with his family and friends whom he had told that he &quot;was not ready to lose his love&quot;, witnesses said. The girl is said to have dumped him for a Form Four student in the same school. ALSO READ: Villagers in Naivasha appeal for help to end youth suicides The boy sent emissaries; including his sister and friends to try and convince the girl to accept him back but to no avail. &quot;At some point this boy was fishing within the bordering beaches in the shores of Lake Victoria and he used to give the girl a lot of money, but when he joined school, all these goodies disappeared because he had no time to look for money. He could even sell his clothes to get money to spend on the girl,&quot; said his mother Caroline Achieng. The girl and her new lover have since gone missing. School Principal Jared Adero said the school cannot be involved in the matter because it &quot;happened in the village which is not our mandate&quot;. Ms Achieng confirmed that her fourth born son had hinted to his sister that he was contemplating suicide. &quot;She did not take the issue seriously because the boy is disciplined and has never engaged in such talk,&quot; she said. Achieng said her son had spent the day at home, but left the compound in the company of a friend at around 5pm. Kisumu County Commissioner Maalim Mohammed confirmed the incident saying police were investigating the matter. ALSO READ: At least 20 dead in bomb blast outside Afghan Supreme Court &quot;The preliminary information we have is what is alleged by the family that the boy discussed with them. But authorities are on the matter to find out more,&quot; he said. The body was taken to Ahero Sub-County Hospital Mortuary.