Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi has insisted that he stands the best chance of beating President Uhuru Kenyatta in the August 8 General Election. Mr Mudavadi asked fellow National Super Alliance (NASA) leaders Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang&#39;ula to support his quest. &quot;I stand a better chance of carrying the NASA flag from among my peers ODM leader Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Moses Wetang&#39;ula (Ford Kenya) because my native community which is the single largest voting bloc in the country, is fully behind me,&quot; the former Deputy Premier said in an interview with a local vernacular station. He continued: &quot;The minor criticism against my being made the political spokesman of the community died off because it arose out of a misunderstanding. I promised to reach out to fellow leaders and I have done exactly that to calm waters. We are now a team.&quot; When he was told that he was too soft to clinch the ticket, Mudavadi said former President Mwai Kibaki was called a coward and President Daniel Moi a passing cloud but &quot;look at how long they were at the helm eventually&quot;. In a wide-ranging interview on Kameme FM yesterday morning, Mudavadi said unity under NASA would outlive doubters out to create turmoil in the alliance. &quot;We know we are under the radar of Jubilee propaganda to steal the thunder of NASA Armada from us by sowing suspicion among us. The most portent is to label some of us as Jubilee moles. There are even the ridiculous ones who say NASA is a Jubilee project. We are focused and shall weather all that,&quot; he said. ALSO READ: Law on party hopping haunts Kenyan political leaders Mudavadi said President Kenyatta started with good intentions against corruption but lost the war and gave up. &quot;Uhuru had good intentions but somehow eased off the peddle on the war against corruption, allowing it to spiral completely out of his control and finally gave up. He is now a prisoner of corruption cartels,&quot; he said. He added: &quot;When NASA takes over in August, theft will be dealt with ruthlessly. There will be no hiding place in a region, religion, tribe or party. You will not be spared for merely being in NASA.&quot; The ANC leader wondered why the Government was shouting itself hoarse about drugs yet it has the machinery to deal with the traffickers.