Opposition leader Raila Odinga yesterday pledged the National Super Alliance (NASA) will reform the country within 90 days if it wins the next elections. Raila, who addressed members of the Maasai community from Samburu, Kajiado and Narok, and the Ilchamus from Baringo also received Jubilee MP Moitalel ole Kenta who left Jubilee. Ole Kenta was elected on President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s TNA party. Speaking during his tour of Narok County, Raila termed NASA the antidote for the ills that have been affecting the country under the Jubilee administration, including corruption, tribalism and marginalisation. He accused Jubilee of lack of political goodwill to fulfill promises it made to Kenyans four years down the line due to runaway corruption. &ldquo;It is just six months for Jubilee to go home yet it is not keen on delivering its pledges. They promised you laptops, employment, roads and health. Have you seen them?&rdquo; Raila asked the crowd. ALSO READ: NASA lands in the Rift with a vow to send Jubilee home He said tribalism is rampant in government appointments. &ldquo;Those who are not allied to those in power are shortchanged regardless of their level of qualifications. Tribalism is a major problem in the Jubilee government. Names determine whether you are gong to get hired or not.&rdquo; Raila accused Jubilee of misplaced priorities arguing while health workers and university staff are on strike, Jubilee leaders are busy dishing millions in harambees. Raila who was accompanied by ODM legislators Abdikadir Aden (Mbalambala), Charles Mong&rsquo;are (Mugirango South), Kanchori Memusi (Kajiado Central) and Kajiado Governor David Nkedienye also said his government will implement the Truth Justice and Reconciliation Commission(TJRC )report. &ldquo;The TJRC report has been lying in Parliament. It has not been debated and President Kenyatta is not keen to implement it. As as result, communities such as the Maasai who have suffered as a result of historical land injustices continue to wait for justice to be done,&rdquo; Raila said. He accused the President of being behind the failure, by Parliament, to debate the report and claimed a directive was issued that the report should not be implemented. Ole Kenta is the second MP to ditch Jubilee after Narok West&rsquo;s Patrick Ntutu joined Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto-led Chama Cha Mashinani. ALSO READ: Opinion: NASA a coalition of one 'alpha male' and three 'flower girls'