A military officer has accused police of failing to protect him despite having received threats from unknown people. Major Dmitry Gwandho&#39;s Milimani estate house was on Saturday broken into by individuals who erected a new gate and brought in private guards to ensure he does not access the property. The officer, based at Embakasi Garrison in Nairobi with the Joint Helicopter Command, was further assaulted for the fourth time since September. &quot;My life is in danger. I have reported to police officers (at Nakuru Central Police Station) about attacks and threats I received from unknown thugs but they have taken no action,&quot; said Mr Gwandho unable to hold back tears. The army man is now living in an undisclosed hotel because of fear of being attacked by youths who have vowed to kill him if he does not vacate the three quarter-acre property. &quot;The goons seem to call the shots. They have assaulted me four times and in all the cases I have made reports. Officers in plainclothes even supervised the taking over of my house and there is no court order to the effect,&quot; he said. Narrating his ordeal, Gwandho said he had gone to visit his family in Nairobi when his employee called him with news that unknown people had raided his home. He immediately contacted the police but nothing was forthcoming. When his patience with the police ran out, he travelled to Nakuru. He found more than 50 youths who were armed with arrows, machetes and knives in his compound. Some police officers, he said, were at the station but did not take any action. The youths chased away his guards, broke into his house and started looting. When he tried to stop them, they beat him up. Gwandho said: &quot;The youths were all over my compound and vowed to slit my neck but with my military tactics, I managed to escape.&quot; He sustained serious injuries and was treated at the Rift Valley Provincial General Hospital. He later reported the incident at the Central Police Station and it was booked under occurrence book number 73 of February 4, 2017. Gwandho was assaulted last month and he reported the attack at the same station and it was booked under occurrence book number six of January 1, 2017. In mid last year, the officer had also recorded a statement at the same station under occurrence book number 20 of September but no action was taken. &quot;I have recorded at least four statements at central police station and I now fear the officers might be working with the criminals to evict me and own my property,&quot; the major claimed. When contacted over the allegations, Nakuru police boss Joshua Omukata said the military officer should seek a court order to restrain people from raiding the premise. He could not, however, explain why police had not acted on the numerous complaints filed by the officer or why they were yet to arrest those who took over the house. &quot;He should go to court to have the matter solved,&quot; Mr Omukata said. The house, Gwandho said, belonged to his late mother Gwandho Svietlana, a former pharmacist who was worked for Rift Valley Provincial General Hospital. According to documents seen by The Standard, Dr Svietlana applied to the commissioner of lands to own the residential house Nakuru/ Municipality Block 12, plot number 127 on May 10, 1994. In a letter dated May 10, 1994, Svietlana said she had been living in the house since 1984. In 1987 the Ministry of Works, Housing and Physical planning allocated Svietlana the house. &quot;I am pleased to inform you that the medium grade houses committee has allocated you the above named house with effect from November 1, 1987,&quot; a letter from the ministry partly read. However in 1995, Peter Lee Kiilu, a former Provincial Commissioner, was accused of having applied for ownership of the plot using a letter bearing the signature of former President Daniel Moi. This was later proven to be a forgery by handwriting experts.