Renault Kenya has unveiled the new Kadjar SUV in the local market. The French brand&rsquo;s mid-sized SUV now enters a hotly contested local segment comprising other brands in its category. Speaking at the launch of the car, Renault Brand Manager Jonathan Dos Santos said the Kadjar enters the market at an interesting time when Kenyans are keen on value for their money and are looking for models that meet their immediate motoring needs. &ldquo;It is absolutely stunning to look at with some striking features that are further enhanced by the awesome LED daytime running lights. You will be hard-pressed to get a better deal on a mid-sized SUV,&rdquo; said Mr Jonathan. The Kadjar sits above the Duster compact SUV in Renault&#39;s line-up, measuring 4.45 metres long, 1.84 metres wide and 1.6 metres tall. Some semblance of off-road ability is assured thanks to its 190mm ground clearance, front and rear skid plates and approach and departure angles of 18 and 25 degrees respectively. &ldquo;This car defines innovation, on the technology front, &ldquo;the Kadjar boasts of easy park assist, LED daytime running lights, dual zone climate control, electronic parking brake, keyless entry and voice activated controls, amongst many more&rdquo; Said Jonathan at the launch. At the same time, Renault has unveiled the New Duster model as it rumps up its motor offering for the growing Kenyan middle class. The new improved model duster has a new face lift and is now available in 4x4 manual and in 4x2 automatic by end of 3rd quarter.&rdquo; &nbsp;It has an upgraded exterior and interior design that makes it a head-turner. &nbsp;&ldquo;These new enhancements perfectly complement the New Duster, while it retains its iconic crossover style body shape, this is one of our best models and has a great history in global markets&rdquo;, Jonathan said. In line with the advancements in technology in the industry, the new Duster is equipped with new rear view camera with guidelines, new automatic air conditioning, new window with anti-pinch and new multimedia 7&rdquo; touch screen. In a bid to enhance the safety of its users, the New Duster has a host of active and passive safety features including ABS, EBD with Brake Assist, Dual Airbags, ESP and Hill start assist. It is also equipped with front driver and passenger airbags as well as a visual and sound signal to alert you just in case you forget to buckle up. &nbsp;