There was drama in Naivasha after Nominated Senator Paul Njoroge fired in the air to stop an attempt to close a petrol station that he is running. The senator who represents the disabled shot once forcing a group of workers and members of the public to scamper for safety during the incident at Karai along the Nairobi-Nakuru highway. At one time, a group of youths from either side clashed leavings scores of them injured and transport along the busy road affected. The workers had been hired by Vivo Energy Company to confiscate all the equipment at the Shell petrol station after the senator allegedly failed to follow some rules Among those caught up in the late afternoon incident were the company MD Polycarp Igathe who is also KEPSA chairman and had come to effect the closure notice. Trouble started in the afternoon after the workers moved in and demolished part of the petrol station entrance before embarking on carting away the fuel pumps. It was then that the senator arrived and stopped the exercise after obtaining a court order from the Naivasha law courts. The order from Naivasha Principal Magistrate Esther Kimilu restrained the fuel company from interfering or taking over or terminating the contract until the case is heard and determined. And as the senator engaged the workers in a heated argument, some tried to continue with the demolition forcing him to fire in the air. The irate and emotional senator blamed business rivalry for the incident adding that he had complied with all the laid down regulations. He denied that the petrol station had ran out of fuel adding that the new move was meant to cancel the dealership and hand it over to the rival trader. &quot;I paid Sh2.5m to Vivo company and I have an Insurance of Sh6m and the fuel company has decided to ignore a court order,&quot; said the senator. Later, the senator and his workers trooped to Naivasha police station to record statements as police embarked on their own investigations. And addressing the press at the police station, Igathe denied ever receiving the court order adding that they were closing the petrol station due to poor management. He said that for the last couple of days the station did not have fuel a move that had adversely affected their customers along the highway. Igathe added that the dealership had since been revoked adding that the petrol station would remain closed until a new investor was found. &quot;I had come to enforce the closure notice only for the senator to open fire and I have recorded a statement with the police over a threat to my life,&quot; he said. A senior police officer who declined to be named said that an inquest file had been opened as part of their investigations following the incident. &quot;The two parties involved have recorded statements with our officers and we shall take the necessary action once out investigations are done,&quot; said the officer.