Western region leaders have urged Water and Irrigation Cabinet Secretary (CS) Eugene Wamalwa to go for Trans-Nzoia gubernatorial seat. Bungoma governor Ken Lusaka and MPs David Lazaro, (Saboti) Janet Nangabo (Tran-Nzoia Women Rep) and Dan Wanyama (Webuye East) told Eugene to listen to voices of residents of the county and abandon his bid for Nairobi. The leaders noted that the CS has high chances of clinching the Trans-Nzoia governor seat than in Nairobi. &quot;Listen to the voices from your people. They want you to represent them in Trans-Nzoia and not Nairobi,&quot; Mr Lusaka told Eugene during the burial ceremony of Regina Nasike in Muungano village Trans-Nzoia County. Former cabinet minister Noah Wekesa and gubernatorial candidate Joel Gesuka kicked off the debate when they announced that they have pulled out of the race in favour of Eugene. Lusaka told Eugene that he has better chances in Trans-Nzoia than Nairobi adding that it is the people&#39;s wish that he quit the Nairobi race. ALSO READ: Kenyan football fraternity in mourning as Sofapaka midfielder passes on Amid cheering from mourners, Lusaka told Eugene that he is assured of winning the gubernatorial race in Trans-Nzoia than Nairobi. &quot;Charity begins at home. You are assured here than Nairobi where it is competitive. People want you to build your political base at home,&quot; Lusaka urged. Wanyama told Eugene to solidify support for his future political ambition by taking the leadership of Trans-Nzoia County. &quot;Don&#39;t go against the wishes of your people. Come home and build your base,&quot; said Wanyama. While endorsing Eugene for the governor&rsquo;s seat, Nangabo and Lazaro said the CS&#39;s bid is assured and residents are settled on him as the replacement of Governor Patrick Khaemba. Eugene who declined to respond to the concerns from the leaders asked residents to list as voters ahead of the August general elections. Eugene was expected to make a major announcement on Saturday but postponed the event following the killing of Nasike, who was a close relative. ALSO READ: As a society, we have failed to inculcate reading culture at youth stage At the same time the leaders condemned the brutal killing of the late Nasike and asked the security agents in the area to apprehend those responsible. Unknown assailants broke into Nasike&#39;s house through the window and slaughtered her without stealing anything. Kiminini deputy County Commissioner George Ochieng urged residents to support government efforts in finding Nasike&#39;s killers.