Kenyan youth have an obligation to register as voters so that they can participate in the upcoming polls, President Uhuru Kenyatta said. The Head of State said the future of the country belongs to the youth and they should step up to take an active role in shaping it. He said the youth make up about two-thirds of Kenya&#39;s population and that means that they have the power to put in office leaders who care about their interests. President Kenyatta spoke when he met a group of popular artists including Gospel musician Roy Smith Mwatia popularly known as &#39;Rufftone&#39; and top radio presenter Daniel Githinji Mwangi popularly known as &#39;Mbusii&#39; at State House, Nairobi. Also at the meeting was the award-winning FBI Dance Crew. The dance crew comprises Ezra Njagi (their leader), Moesha Kibibi, Ramadhan Nyachio, Emmanuel Tumaini, Katabira Denis and Kennedy Mutembei. &quot;Refusing to register to vote is not rebellion. Refusing to register is actually surrendering,&quot; he said. ALSO READ: Government to distribute relief food in Ukambani: DP Ruto The President said the youth should register in large numbers and vote for leaders who will not be tribal or corrupt; and who will create opportunities for business and employment. The Head of State&#39;s comments come a day before he embarks on another round of voter sensitisation tour that will see him visit several counties before the end of voter registration. Today, the President will open a Kenya-German business summit before touring various parts of Nairobi. Tomorrow, he will tour Nyandarua County and on Saturday he will be in Nakuru County. Yesterday, President Kenyatta at State House, Nairobi, held talks with leaders of the African Independent Pentecostal Church of Africa (AIPCA) during which he urged them to work in unity. The President encouraged the leaders, who included Bishop Julius Njorogoe Gitau and Bishop Fredrick Wang&#39;ombe, to avoid divisions in the church. The church leaders assured the President that they had reconciled, adding that the enthronement of Bishop Njoroge had been postponed in efforts to build unity. ALSO READ: Jubilee rivals in Coast unite to face Governor Hassan Joho