Friends and relatives eulogised fallen soldiers who lost their lives when Al Shabaab militants raided a military camp in Kulbiyow Somalia. In Kipkleon East constituency, Kericho County, a sombre mood engulfed Kaptenet village during the burial of 44-year-old Senior Corporal Joseph Kipkurui Rotich. Rotich, who died while defending the camp, was attached to the 15 Kenya Rifles Unit, which he joined in 2011. Rotich is survived by his wife, Evelyne Rotich, and three children. In Kanamkemer, Turkana central sub-county, a sombre mood engulfed the home of&nbsp; 25-year-old soldier Gregory Ekowom. A 21-gun salute rent the air in respect of Ekowom, a fallen hero, as family members slowly placed a pile of stones on his grave in line with Turkana tradition. ALSO READ: Slain KDF soldier missed last year's deadly attack by a whisker &nbsp;BREAD WINNER Ekowom had only served for four years when he met his death. He is the second born son of the late Ekuwom Epeot and his second wife Akadot Ekuwom in a family of six. A few metres from Ekowom&rsquo;s home, another family was mourning Captain Silas Ekidor who also perished in the attack. His body is yet to be flown home for burial. In Western Kenya, two families in Lumakanda, Lugari, Kakamega county and Serem, Vihiga county, are still trying to come to terms with the loss of their kin in the attack. Hillary Wanja was the bread winner of the family in Lumakanda while Victor Jamuguni left behind two children and an expectant wife in Serem. Jamuguni, 32, was serving his third year in the Kenya Defence Forces. ALSO READ: Top military officers visit Kulbiyow camp after Al Shabaab attack In Menengai, on the outskirts of Nakuru town, family members and colleagues of slain Administration Police officer- Robert Ekai, attached to Rural Border Patrol Unit laid him to rest. Ekai was based at Hulugho operation base- 18km from Kulbiyow. He died as his unit rushed to the rescue of Kulbiyow. Their vehicle hit an improvised explosive device (IED). &ldquo;We heard a bang and saw the vehicle in the air,&rdquo; said Tom Mbaja, Ekai&rsquo;s platoon commander.