Tucked away in Berea Village in Subukia sub-county along the Nakuru - Nyahururu road, Bomas of Nakuru has continued to woo cultural lovers and tourists alike. The facility serves as a hub of information on the culture and heritage of diverse Kenyan communities. The facility is a replica of the Bomas of Kenya, a tourist village found in Nairobi County, that displays communities&rsquo; traditional villages with the aim of preserving and promoting the rich and diverse cultural values of Kenyan tribes. At the Nakuru facility, well-tended flower gardens and gorgeous botanical gardens with more than 22 indigenous and medicinal trees adorn the beautiful expansive lawns. &ldquo;This is a one of a kind facility in Nakuru where tourists are able to get information on diverse Kenyan communities as well as enjoy hot afternoons under the trees away from the town&rsquo;s bustling streets,&rdquo; said Stephen Waweru, the facility&rsquo;s owner. Visitors to the premises can expect to be treated to the traditional way of life of ten ethnic communities with &lsquo;villages&rsquo; in place complete with their tools of communication, hunting, storage facilities and colonial documents. These are the Kalenjin, Kamba, Luhya, Mijikenda, Luo, Teso, Embu, Kisii, Kikuyu and Maasai communities. ALSO READ: 'We'll remain united and sacrifice for each other to send Jubilee home' Interesting facts demonstrating peaceful and cohesive living among the diverse Kenyan communities are curated well with the presence of a hall outside the village, a modern day version of a court, where it is said that the communities met to solve their differences and take on indiscipline cases. Traditional tools including horns for communication, gourds, grinding stones, traditional stools and pre-colonial identifications and money are all displayed at the facility. And have you ever wondered if there existed a &lsquo;civilised&rsquo; community before the colonialists came? Then you have to visit Mijikenda village at Bomas of Nakuru. Traditional huts known as Villages of different communicates at Bomas of a Nakuru at Berea Village in Subukia Here, you will discover there was a community that was already way ahead of its time. The people never slept on floors but had make-shift beds in their Makuti-thatched houses, they even had guests&rsquo; houses, watch towers and workshop halls within the homestead. This is unlike other communities who mainly concentrated on the arrangement and decoration of huts. Apart from being a cultural hub, the facility is home to a number of tortoises, guinea fouls, ostriches, crocodiles and fish ponds. One can also expect to be treated to camel rides and fishing expeditions at the facilities&rsquo; ponds. The facility serves as an ideal out-of-town venue where one can enjoyed the grilled nyama choma or &lsquo;fish&rsquo; for their own delicacy. Out-door camping and bonfires are also major attractions to the site.