Shock has gripped a village in Lugari, Kakamega County, after the body of a one-day-old baby was exhumed and taken away. Residents of Macho village woke up to find the grave open and the body and garments missing. Everlyn Nasimiyu said she discovered the empty grave when she went to cut banana leaves to feed her cows yesterday. Her daughter gave birth to the baby on January 9 but the baby died a day later. &quot;We informed the authorities, relatives and my daughter&#39;s boyfriend who lives in Nairobi about what had happened and went ahead to bury the baby near a banana farm as is the tradition,&quot; said Nasimiyu. Since her husband was away, Nasimiyu said they invited neighbours who helped dig the grave and buried the baby boy. &quot;It was like a dream to me when I saw the grave dug out and the body of my grandchild nowhere to be seen. Not even the white garments we covered the body with had been left behind,&quot; said a tearful Nasimiyu. ALSO READ: Woman brutally murdered by lover&rsquo;s two sons in Kakamega When she saw the open grave, Nasimiyu raised the alarm, attracting villagers who flocked her home to see what was happening. She said she reported the matter at Mlimani police post and officers promised to start investigations immediately and bring the culprits to book. The family has ruled out the possibility that dogs or wild animals had dug out the grave and eaten the body since the grave was three feet deep and reinforced with bricks. &quot;It is clear someone exhumed the body. One would have expected to find the garments used to wrap the body if the grave had been dug up by animals,&quot; said Nasimiyu. Elsewhere, a trader was killed by unknown people on Monday night in Butere. Another victim who was seriously injured during the attack is fighting for his life at St Mary&#39;s Mission Hospital in Mumias. Kakamega County Commissioner Kang&#39;ethe Thuku said investigations had started and urged locals to help track down the culprits. ALSO READ: House help burns boss to death in Eldoret