Mukambi Primary pupils in Mumias in Kakamega County with thier Teacher Mary Alusa during a class session with newly brought digital learning gadgets. (Photo: Chrispen Sechere/Standard) Authorities have recommended that the minimum requirements to train as a teacher should be raised under the new education curriculum. The Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD) wants the entry grade for trainee teachers set at C+. Currently, students who scored D in the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education exams can join the profession. The new C+ entry level should cut across those joining the Early Childhood Development Education (ECDE), primary and also secondary levels, according to a report on the draft framework for teacher training education reforms by KICD. There will also be no certificate courses for ECDE, primary teachers&#39; education and diploma secondary teacher education as all will be raised to diploma level lasting two years. The C+ grade was also preferred for diploma education courses in special needs education and those joining Technical Vocational Education and Training. &quot;At all levels, there should be two years practicum (teaching practice) sessions at the end of first year and second year,&quot; reads the report. ALSO READ: TSC issues tough rules to curb teacher absenteeism As part of the reforms expected to go along with the proposed new 2-6-3-3-3 system taking effect in May, KICD has described the radical reforms as &#39;necessary&#39; to address challenges facing the profession. In the new system that is skills and talent-oriented rather than content-based, learners will spend two years in pre-primary, six in primary (lower and upper), another six in secondary (junior and senior) before joining a tertiary institution. Considering the current curriculum for all levels of education was last reviewed over a decade ago, the new changes seek to align the new curriculum with the Constitution, East Africa Community protocol, Sustainable Development Goals and Vision 2030. Under the new curriculum, the structure of teacher education has been organised into three levels; early years, middle school, and secondary. Those joining middle school teacher education should have attained a C+ in English and Kiswahili; and other three teaching subjects. The report has proposed that secondary teacher education be offered as an integrated Bachelor of Education programme or post-graduate diploma where each candidate will study two teaching subjects. &quot;Post-diploma training in technical teacher education will be offered to interested candidates who must possess a diploma or bachelor&#39;s degree in any relevant field and should have at least three years&#39; experience,&quot; the report partly read. If adopted, the new teachers&#39; curriculum will see student teachers get equipped with information communication technology, psychology, sociology, economics, administrative and entrepreneurship skills. &quot;The report emphasises the need to educate student teachers on pedagogical (theory and practice of education) approaches that take cognisance of diversity of learners, including those with special needs,&quot; it read. ALSO READ: Work with unions to resolve pay disputes Contemporary and emerging societal issues will also be infused into the teachers&#39; curriculum, which includes security and disaster management, good governance, financial literacy and animal welfare. Others are community service, conflict resolution, sexual education family life, health and hygiene.