Mombasa County deputy governor Hazel Katana owes the devolved government Sh3.92 million, a document seen by The Standard on Saturday shows. The document signed by Mombasa County Chief Officer Alphonse Mrima, alleges that Ms Katana took an imprest of Sh8.9 million between January 7, 2014 and December 1 last year for trips and functions overseas, which she has not accounted for. Yesterday, Katana accused the county government of making false accusations against her following her defection to Jubilee. &ldquo;Why are they coming up with these issues now after I have defected? I am still the deputy governor and in case they want anything they can come and ask me,&rdquo; she said. The document also shows that out of this amount, the deputy governor who defected to Jubilee recently accusing the Joho administration of persecution, paid back Sh5 million but was still holding onto the balance by December last year. When she announced her defection in Mombasa, Katana claimed the Joho administration had denied her a salary for a year and failed to assign her any officials duties. However, the document shows that besides representing the governor and county government on overseas assignments, her salary has also been paid. ALSO READ: Meru Governor Aspirant Kilemi Mwiria ditches Jubilee Party Advance salary The document shows that on July 17 2014 she was given an imprest of Sh337,388 to travel to Melbourne in Australia to attend 20th Aids conference but failed to account for the money. The Deputy Governor also travelled to India for medical attention on August 27 2014 but has not surrendered the imprest as was required by the law. Mrima in a detailed report says Katana despite having received imprest to travel various parts of the country, also received Sh1,139,842 as advance salary after she requested for it. The report says most of the imprest she received without accounting for were approved by Governor Hassan Joho. The report says the county government also advanced her study tour to USA to a tune of Sh648,622 on August 9 this year but she has not accounted for it. Among the places she travelled to include Germany after receiving Sh487,200 on February 24 2014 which was approved by the governor. ALSO READ: Jubilee strongholds record highest number of new voters Despite receiving the cash, records show she never repaid nor accounted for it. The report also shows that she was paid Sh 1,207,004 advance salary on December 1 last year.