NAIROBI, KENYA: Opposition leader Raila Odinga has once again raised alarm over ongoing voter registration with evidence of manipulation of IEBC database. He alleged that this is part of a scheme to create room for ballot stuffing during elections. &ldquo;We have unearthed serious anomalies in the on-going voter registration that bring to questions the integrity of the register being compiled and the figures being released by the IEBC,&rdquo; said Raila &ldquo;Our investigation has confirmed that numbers that do not qualify as identity card numbers have been used to register voters in parts of the country and that is responsible for what is being presented as high turnout in voter registration in those regions,&rdquo; he said. ALSO READ: Nasa unveils roadmap for selecting flag bearer Cord leader Raila Odinga (Center) A random check by the opposition shows that the numbers (0 00 1 2 11 12 231 111 20 21, 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 40) have been used as national identification cards to register voters. The opposition further alleged that it has information that the doctoring of the IEBC registration software was done intentionally by former employees of IEBC who are aligned to Jubilee as a way to ensure Jubilee strongholds register more voters. &ldquo;The manipulation was done to ensure that single digit number such as the ones listed above can be used to register foreigners or even those without IDs.&rdquo; &ldquo;But it is also possible that the names popping up under the fake ID numbers may be non-existent. These could be virtual voters, non-existent human beings being included in the IEBC register to create room for ballot stuffing during elections.&rdquo; According to Raila, the information in opposition possession is that the doctoring exercise is currently being carried out in homes of a senior government official and the office of a former cabinet secretary. In a statement it said, the numbers above are only a drop in the ocean. The total number of people registered in the IEBC database using different combinations is estimated to be in the thousands. ALSO READ: Jubilee strongholds record highest number of new voters &ldquo;The IEBC must come clean on this matter. But not just that. These developments mean the audit and cleaning of the register is mandatory and has to be extremely thorough.&rdquo;