Seventeen years later, it is still unclear who ordered the murder of drugs lord Ibrahim Akasha. The man was shot dead in a red-light district in Amsterdam, Netherlands. Several accounts indicate the polygamist Akasha was, most likely, executed by foreign drug barons over deals gone sour. Most analysts suspect Akasha was lured to his death in Amsterdam by Indian fugitive Dawood Ibrahim. At the moment of his death, Akasha was having an evening walk with Hayat, one of his four wives. Indian security sources have claimed Akasha and Dawood had crossed paths over the control of one of the most lucrative drug trade routes between Pakistan to East Africa and South America through the Kenyan Coast. At the time of his visit to Amsterdam, Akasha was also a man under siege from Kenyan authorities under US pressure. Due to his immense influence and notoriety, Akasha and his army of sons were a law unto themselves. Top politicians and police officers lived in fear of Akasha. Some judges and magistrates were also known to be on his payroll. ALSO READ: Akasha brothers snatched away by unknown gunmen Many celebrated Akasha&#39;s death, believing they had heard the last of his drug trafficking empire and reign of terror in East Africa. There was cause to celebrate because just before the murder of the patriarch, his favourite sons Kamaldin Akasha and Baktash Akasha were in police custody in Mombasa accused of trafficking in hashish worth Sh940 million. Some 14 years later, it became evident this celebration was premature; for Baktash Akasha, who ably fitted the shoes of his father, took over the mantle, according to US authorities who described him in November 2014 as a leading drug baron with global networks. Following Akasha&#39;s murder, his fractious family descended into property feuds and succession wars over billions of cash in banks and other investments in Kenya, Zambia, South Sudan, Sudan and Lebanon. Kamaldin was killed in the course of these violent clashes. Baktash and his step-brother Tinta Akasha were briefly arrested after Kamaldin&#39;s murder but freed without charges. By 2000, the Akashas&#39; influence in Mombasa had been weakened by family feuds and extortion by State officials.