Opposition chiefs have signed a letter of intent to form the National Super Alliance (NASA), The Standard has established. With the letter signed, the 12-member select team now have legal backing to proceed and draft a coalition agreement, structures, a power-sharing formula, and name the presidential candidate and his running mate. After unveiling the team on Tuesday afternoon, Raila Odinga (ODM), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula (Ford-Kenya) retreated to a secluded place in Westlands where they appended their signatures to the document, signalling the end of the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (CORD). VALUES IN DOCUMENT The four leaders agreed to sign the document after setting out an irreducible minimum of values and principles they believe should guide the coalition. The values contained in the document include comprehensive implementation of the Constitution, respect for rule of law, human dignity, human rights, zero tolerance to corruption, prudent management of public debt and promotion of national cohesion through comprehensive inclusiveness. ALSO READ: Jubilee leaders promise to turn tables on CORD in August elections NASA luminaries also agreed on sustainable economic development grounded on social democracy, integrity and transparency in the management of public affairs. The document will now be deposited with the Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndung&rsquo;u pending the pre-election or post-election coalition agreement. &ldquo;The principals agreed to form a coalition with guiding values and principles of governance. We don&rsquo;t want to go to an election as a divided family and so we must prepare a pre-election coalition agreement,&rdquo; said joint NASA secretariat. According to Kakemega Senator Boni Khalwale, who is a member of the secretariat, the process of converting NASA into a legal entity began with the formation of the National Coordinating Committee (NCC). &ldquo;The process of converting NASA into a legal entity has begun. An official statement will be made by the four principals in good time regarding CORD and parties that encompass NASA,&rdquo; said Khalwale. NASA principal and Senate Minority Leader Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula said the mandate of NCC is to ensure there are no areas predominantly for the affiliate parties but there will be joint nominations. &ldquo;That is part of the committee&rsquo;s work. There are areas that will have joint nomination and for sure a county such as Nairobi and its constituencies will do so. We lost six constituencies in Nairobi in 2013 because of the reckless exercise,&rdquo; said Mr Wetang&rsquo;ula. ALSO READ: NASA leaders meet for flag bearer talks