Senate wants Vihiga Governor Moses Akaranga to account for Sh1.6 billion allocated towards development expenditure in the 2014/2015 budget. This follows a petition by Julius Masiva Obuga-a resident of Vihiga County, alleging misuse and diversion of public funds by Mr Akaranga&#39;s government. The petitioner claims that Sh100 million allocated to the Emergency Fund was redirected to other purposes. He also claims that some county officials opened bank accounts into which money received from hire out equipment and other revenues has been deposited, contrary to the Public Finance Management Act. Akaranga is also expected to explain flouting of procurement laws. &quot;The procurement and payment for goods and services rendered to the county government is in total disregard of the law. Also, the county government has allocated and spent numerous sums of monies on projects not falling within the functions assigned to it by the law,&quot; reads the petition. ALSO READ: Four Jubilee aspirants gang up against Kenneth candidature This is the second petition before Senate on claims on lack of financial prudence and breach of law by Akaranga&#39;s administration. Senators Wilfred Machage (Migori) and Chris Obure (Kisii) took their colleagues in the Finance committee to task to explain why the matter had not been dispensed with since 2015. &quot;This petition is similar to another brought before by some disgruntled Members of the County Assembly, why has it not been acted upon?&quot; posed Dr Machage. Deputy Speaker Senator Kembi Gitura (Muranga) instructed the Finance Committee to look into the matter within 60 days and table a report in the House for consideration. The Senate is also probing Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero&#39;s administration for failing to bank locally generated revenue in the County Revenue Fund. The probe was prompted by a petition by Nairobi resident, Kavemba Mutinda, who accused t6he county administration of breach of the constitution and the Public Finance Management Act. The petitioner cites the Controller of Budgets reports and the Auditor General reports for the financial years 2013/2014 and 2014/2015. ALSO READ: Peter Kenneth blames Evans Kidero for 'outsider' tag &quot;Since 2013, the Nairobi City County government has failed to bank locally collected revenue in the County Revenue Fund, as required by Article 207 of the Constitution and section 109 of the Public Finance Management Act,&quot; reads the petition. Senate&#39;s deputy speaker again directed the finance committee to table a report on the issue before the House within 60 days.