NAIROBI, KENYA: The power of social media cannot be underestimated in the modern society for the influence it commands in people&rsquo;s lives, businesses, and organisations.In countries such as Kenya where a sizeable number of the population is connected to internet, and many own smart phones and computers, various entities are targeting social media forums such as Facebook, twitter, Instagram among others to quickly reach their targeted audience. Alfred Mbai, a social media influencer says the boon is a blessing to many youths like him who now derive their source of livelihood from the new media.At 25 years, the university graduate is in-charge of Ecobank Kenya&rsquo;s social media platforms under brand and communications, a forum where he engages the bank&rsquo;s clients on twitter, Facebook and Instagram.&ldquo;Proper use of Social media as a communication tool can create employment majority of tech-savvy youth. It goes without say that well-crafted messages on these platforms have a way of changing lives and can make a difference in organizing and bringing people together during important occasions and events,&rdquo; he says in an interview. ALSO READ: Nasri's ex-girlfriend denies hacking Manchester City player's Twitter accountHe has generated over 104,000 followers on his twitter account @IamMbai and he is followed by nearly Twenty Four Thousand people on his Facebook account. (https://www.facebook.com/iammbai) with another 26,000 on IG.He realized the potential of social media in 2015 while running the Nijenge Movement. &ldquo;Nijenge is a Swahili word meaning build me and it is a movement targeting youth in local universities, where we link them up with influencing people in the society. The influencers motivate them through talks,&rdquo; he says.&ldquo;Our first event was organized through the social media, we were able to get a sponsor who learnt about us through the platform, but besides we were able to also reach out to many participants,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;Following the success, we have been able to perform tasks such live tweeting events which has seen most of our forums among the top trends on twitter, this has emboldened us,&rdquo; he added.Currently the movement has an outreach in seven universities. Some of the guests &ldquo;Nijenge&rdquo; has hosted include Dr. P.L.O Lumumba who is the director of the Kenya School of Law, Mary Njoki who is the director of a top Public Relations company, Dennis Okari who is an investigative Journalist, Ian Mbugua who is a thespian and fashion specialist and Johnstone Mwakazi, a director at WTV among others.Nijenge has successfully held events at the Presbyterian University of East Africa, Kabarak University, KCA University, Maseno University and lastly Kabianga University.Mr. Mbai says that other than the movement, he uses his social media platforms to inspire change in the society and promote brands. He has handled the social platforms for Churchil Africa, Kilimall and has spearheaded the launch of Cubot smart phones held in Mombasa recently.