Controversy has emerged over a proposal by local elders on how elective seats should be shared in the county ahead of August 8 elections. Kalenjin Myoot Council of Elders has proposed that the governor should come from the northern part of the county that consists of Soi and Turbo constituencies. The south which is made up of Kapseret and Kesses constituencies, they said, should take the woman representative position. The Senate seat should go to the eastern part which has Moiben and Ainabkoi constituencies. Major (rtd) John Seii, who spoke on behalf of the elders said, they thought it wise for the seats to be shared out to avoid the sort of acrimony that came with a scramble for seats in 2013. &quot;We decided to divide the county based on previous set up of north, south and eastern parts. This will ensure peaceful, free and fair primaries and individuals with ill motives will not have their way,&quot; Seii said. He added: &quot;We do not want to mention names of those we prefer because we want to give the people a chance to elect leaders of their choice. However, we welcome anyone from these areas, irrespective of their tribes, to vie for the seats.&quot; The chairman of the elders&#39; council, Joseph Cherono, said their proposal would ensure equal representation of residents. ALSO READ: Time to slay the dragon of hate speech But the idea has been rejected by some local and religious leaders who termed it undemocratic and an attempt to impose leaders on the people. North Rift Council of Imams and Preachers chairman Sheikh Abubakar Bin dismissed the formula terming it a recipe for conflicts. &quot;Who did the elders consult? This will enhance tribalism. The law gives people liberty to elect leaders of their choice,&quot; he said. &quot;The direction the elders have taken will land us in the same problems northern Kenya is facing where clans fight to have their people in office. That should not happen in Uasin Gishu as we have all the 42 tribes.&quot; County Assembly Minority Leader Ramadhan Ali said the plan by elders will not work as it is anti-democracy. Governor Jackson Mandago who hails from the north will face off with Nandi chief officer of health Edward Serem who also comes from the north. Bundotich Kiprop, from the east, is also in the race. The Senate seat, held by Isaac Melly from the north, has also attracted Joseph Lagat and Margaret Kamar, both from east. ALSO READ: Time to slay the dragon of hate speech